Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
New Orleans, Louisiana
Accident Number:
CEN16LA338
Date & Time:
August 27, 2016, 20:15 Local 
Registration:
N984RA
Aircraft:
Cessna 172
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Controlled flight into terr/obj (CFIT)
Injuries:
2 Fatal, 1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Other work use
Analysis 
Shortly after sunset, the pilot with two passengers departed on a local sightseeing flight of the city. The 
flight flew around the city, then proceeded back to the airport after civil twilight. The final portion of the 
flight and the landing approach were conducted over a lake. A review of radar's last return revealed the 
airplane about 0.6 miles from the airport at an altitude of 100 ft agl. The surviving passenger reported 
everything appeared normal during the flight, and as they neared the airport, it started to rain, and 
visibility was poor. The pilot pointed out 4 four red lights ahead of the airplane and stated to the 
passengers that was the airport. The passenger added that she could see out the side window and the 
airplane was about 4-6 ft above the surface of the lake. Shortly thereafter, the airplane impacted the lake.
Postaccident examination of the airplane did not reveal any anomalies that would have precluded normal 
operation. A review of weather information noted the presence of thunderstorm activity and isolated rain 
showers in the area at the time of the accident.
The pilot's toxicology report was positive for ethanol and clomipramine. Due to a delay in the recovery, 
it is likely that most, if not all, of the ethanol was from postmortem production. Clomipramine is a 
tricyclic antidepressant used to treat symptoms of obsessive-compulsive disorder. Clomipramine is not 
considered impairing. Additionally, the pilot's actions and communication with the passengers also 
indicate that the pilot did not experience a seizure or incapacitation, so a reaction to his medication was 
not likely.
With reduced visibility due to rain and night conditions, it is unlikely the pilot could see the water. The 
four red lights, consistent with the runway's precision approach path indicator (PAPI) that the pilot 
pointed out to the passengers, reflected the airplane's low approach path. The accident is consistent with 
the pilot continuing the descent, while already below a normal approach path to the airport, which 
resulted in the controlled flight into terrain. 
