Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Bentonville, Arkansas
Accident Number:
CEN16FA341
Date & Time:
August 31, 2016, 09:30 Local 
Registration:
N8283D
Aircraft:
Beech A36
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Abrupt maneuver
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot was departing from an uncontrolled airport at the same time that another airplane was 
landing in the opposite direction. Surveillance video showed the accident airplane veer to the left during 
its takeoff roll, become airborne over a unpaved area between the runway and ramp area, and cross the 
ramp. The airplane subsequently impacted the top of a hangar and was destroyed by postcrash fire. The 
video evidence and propeller signatures suggest that the pilot did not reduce power and was attempting 
to continue the takeoff. An employee at the fixed base operator on the airport reported that she heard the 
pilot of the landing airplane announce over the airport's common traffic advisory frequency (CTAF) his 
airplane's position inbound to the airport and his intent to land the airplane at the accident airport; 
however, neither she nor the pilot of landing airplane heard the accident pilot transmit his position or 
intentions over the CTAF. The airplane was equipped with communication radios, suggesting that the 
pilot was not using the radios prior to his takeoff. Examination of the accident airplane did not reveal 
any preimpact failures or anomalies.
Toxicology testing of the pilot revealed the presence of temazepam, a Schedule IV controlled substance 
of the benzodiazepine class, that is a sedative intended for the short-term treatment of insomnia. The 
pilot's blood concentration of temazepam was well below that considered to cause significant effects; 
therefore, it is unlikely the pilot was impaired by this medication at the time of the accident.
Additionally, the pilot had atrial fibrillation treated with an anticoagulant and a history of a slow heart 
rate treated with an implanted pacemaker. The actions of the pilot indicate that he was awake and alert, 
and there is no evidence to suggest that he was impaired due to his cardiac conditions. It is unlikely that 
the pilot's atrial fibrillation, high blood pressure, elevated cholesterol, insomnia, or medications used to 
treat these conditions impaired him or contributed to the accident. It is also unlikely that the pilot's slow 
heart rhythm treated with a pacemaker contributed to the accident.
It is likely that the pilot did not recognize that another airplane was landing in the opposite direction 
before he initiated the takeoff. When he did see the other airplane during his takeoff roll, rather than 
