Page 1 of 30
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Russian Mission, Alaska
Accident Number:
ANC16FA061
Date & Time:
August 31, 2016, 10:01 Local 
Registration:
N752RV
Aircraft:
Cessna 208
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Midair collision
Injuries:
3 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 135: Air taxi & commuter - Scheduled
Analysis 
The Cessna had departed about 3 minutes prior on a scheduled passenger flight and the Piper was en 
route to a remote hunting camp when the two airplanes collided at an altitude about 1,760 ft mean sea 
level over a remote area in day, visual meteorological conditions. The airline transport pilot and two 
passengers onboard the Cessna and the commercial pilot and the passenger onboard the Piper were 
fatally injured; both airplanes were destroyed. Postaccident examination revealed signatures consistent 
with the Cessna's outboard left wing initially impacting the Piper's right wing forward strut while in 
level cruise flight. Examination revealed no mechanical malfunctions or anomalies that would have 
precluded normal operation of either airplane. Neither pilot was in communication with an air traffic 
control facility and they were not required to be. 
A performance and visibility study indicated that each airplane would have remained a relatively small, 
slow-moving object in the other pilot's window (their fuselages spanning less than 0.5° of the field of 
view, equivalent to the diameter of a penny viewed from about 7 ft away) until about 10 seconds before 
the collision, at which time it would have appeared to grow in size suddenly (the "blossom" effect). 
From about 2 minutes before the collision, neither airplane would have been obscured from the other 
airplane pilot's (nominal) field of view by cockpit structure, although the Cessna would have appeared 
close to the bottom of the Piper's right wing and near the forward edge of its forward wing strut. 
The Cessna was Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) Out equipped; the Piper was 
not ADS-B equipped, and neither airplane was equipped with any cockpit display of traffic information 
(CDTI). CDTI data would have presented visual information regarding the potential conflict to both 
pilots beginning about 2 minutes 39 seconds and auditory information beginning about 39 seconds 
before the collision, providing adequate time for the pilots to react. 
The see-and-avoid concept requires a pilot to look through the cockpit windows, identify other aircraft, 
decide if any aircraft are collision threats, and, if necessary, take the appropriate action to avert a 
collision. There are inherent limitations of this concept, including limitations of the human visual and 
information processing systems, pilot tasks that compete with the requirement to scan for traffic, the 
