Page 1 of 23
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Carrollton, Georgia
Accident Number:
ERA16FA312
Date & Time:
September 7, 2016, 10:48 Local 
Registration:
N6027K
Aircraft:
Beech F33
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Midair collision
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The Diamond flight instructor and student pilot were in the traffic pattern at the non-towered airport 
practicing landings. The Beech pilot entered the traffic pattern on an extended left downwind leg with 
the intention of landing. Pilots of other airplanes in the pattern reported that the Diamond instructor was 
making standard traffic pattern callouts on the common traffic advisory frequency (CTAF); however, the 
Beech pilot was not transmitting on the CTAF. Witness observations, radar data, GPS data, and 
examination of the wreckage of the two airplanes revealed that, while both airplanes were on final 
approach for landing, the Beech overtook the Diamond from above and behind. The landing gear of the 
Beech struck the horizontal stabilizer and elevator of the Diamond, and then both airplanes abruptly 
descended into the terrain short of the runway. The Beech came to rest inverted and on top of the 
Diamond. An examination of wreckage of both airplanes did not reveal evidence of any preaccident 
anomalies or malfunctions.
Testing of the Beech's VHF communications radio revealed that it was set to an old CTAF frequency for 
the airport that had been changed about 5 years before the accident. A local airport frequency card dated 
7 years before the accident that was found in the Beech's cockpit listed the old CTAF frequency that was 
set in the Beech's radio. Another pilot at a different airport heard the Beech pilot making pattern calls on 
the incorrect frequency about the time of the accident.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The failure of the Beech pilot to see and avoid the Diamond that was in front of and below his 
airplane on final approach and his use of an incorrect radio communication frequency for the 
airport.
