Page 1 of 11
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Wickenburg, Arizona
Accident Number:
WPR16FA176
Date & Time:
September 9, 2016, 07:00 Local 
Registration:
N126P
Aircraft:
Cessna 310N
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel starvation
Injuries:
4 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot and three passengers were departing in the multi-engine airplane when, during 
the early phase of takeoff, most likely shortly after rotation, the right engine experienced a total loss of 
power. The power loss occurred during a critical phase of flight, at a time when the airplane was close to 
or just below the manufacturer's recommended "safe single-engine speed." The hilly terrain surrounding 
the airport, particularly in the takeoff direction, left the pilot with few options for a safe climb out. 
Further hindering the takeoff was the airplane's anemic single-engine climb performance due to the high 
density altitude conditions and the airplane's weight. As a result, shortly after the loss of power, the 
airplane rolled right, consistent with it flying slower than its minimum controllable single-engine 
airspeed, collided with the ground, and sustained substantial damage.
The pilot and passengers all sustained serious injuries and could not remember the circumstances of the 
accident.
Examination of the right engine revealed that a clear, gelatinous substance had blocked the inlet port of 
the fuel flow transducer, leading to fuel starvation. The substance was determined to be silicone, most 
likely room-temperature-vulcanization silicone sealant. There were no indications that this material had 
been used anywhere within the fuel system, nor were there any signs of recent maintenance that could 
have resulted in the introduction of this contaminant. To get to the fuel flow transducer, the silicone 
would have had to pass through multiple fine mesh filters, which was unlikely based on the material's 
size when dry. However, silicone becomes semi-soluble once in contact with aviation gasoline, and it is 
possible that it was extruded through the filters in this state, and eventually coalesced in the flow divider 
inlet port. Smaller fragments of the silicone were found in the fuel manifold valve, beyond the flow 
divider, and a fuel injector valve port was partially occluded, possibly with the same material.
The specific source of contamination could not be determined. The pilot last purchased fuel for the 
airplane about one month before the accident. Later on the day of purchase, the fuel system was shut 
down by the airport management due to metering inaccuracies; however, the problems were all electrical 
