Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
International Waters, 
Accident Number:
DCA16CA220
Date & Time:
August 31, 2016, 02:10 UTC 
Registration:
N657UA
Aircraft:
Boeing 767 322
Aircraft Damage:
None
Defining Event:
Turbulence encounter
Injuries:
1 Serious, 11 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 121: Air carrier - Scheduled
Analysis 
On August 31, 2016, at 0210 universal coordinated time, United Airlines flight 880, a Boeing 767-322, 
N657UA, encountered severe turbulence during cruise that resulted in one flight attendant sustaining a 
serious injury. Another flight attendant and 10 passengers, including one infant, received minor injuries. 
There were no injuries to the other passengers and crew onboard and the airplane was not damaged.  The 
flight was operating under the provisions of 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121 as a regularly 
scheduled passenger flight from the George Bush Intercontinental Airport (KIAH), Houston, Texas to 
the London-Heathrow Airport (EGLL), United Kingdom. The flight diverted to the Shannon Airport 
(EINN), Shannon, Ireland . 
According to flight crew statements, the aircraft was in cruise at flight level (FL) 340 approximately 50 
miles east of 40W on the North Atlantic Track X, when it encountered unexpected severe turbulence 
that lasted for approximately 45 seconds.  The captain indicated there was forecast turbulence for this 
portion of the flight and there were no pilot weather reports (PIREP) or air traffic control advisories in 
the pre-flight weather package.  The flight crew indicated that the flight conditions were smooth and 
devoid of any turbulence for approximately two hours prior to the event.  The seat belt sign had been off 
for about 2 hours prior to the event.  They indicated that the onboard weather radar was operating in the 
AUTO mode and there were no returns observed prior to the event.  After the event, the seat belt sign 
was immediately illuminated. After assessing the level and number of injuries, the captain decided to 
divert to EINN to expedite After landing, all injured passengers and one flight attendant were treated for 
minor injuries and released; one flight attendant was admitted to the hospital with fractures of the left 
wrist and L3 vertebra.
According to a weather analysis conducted by United Airlines, satellite imagery indicated convective 
buildup/enhancement in the form of an isolated cell in the region of the event.  The Atlantic High 
Weather Prognostic Chart valid for the period depicted the potential for isolated cumulonimbus clouds 
over the area, which implied the potential for severe or greater turbulence associated with the 
convection. The nighttime conditions and lack of lightning in the lower convection, likely did not 
