Page 1 of 11
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Chariton, Iowa
Accident Number:
CEN16FA361
Date & Time:
September 7, 2016, 12:19 Local 
Registration:
N465JM
Aircraft:
Piper PA 46-310P
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The noninstrument-rated private pilot was conducting a visual flight rules (VFR) cross-country flight 
while receiving VFR flight following services from air traffic control.  Radar data and voice 
communication information indicated that the airplane was in cruise flight as the pilot deviated around 
convective weather near his destination. The controller issued a weather advisory to the pilot concerning 
areas of moderate to extreme precipitation along his route; the pilot responded that he saw the weather 
on the airplane's NEXRAD weather display system and planned to deviate around it before resuming 
course. About 3 minutes later, the pilot stated that he was around the weather and requested to start his 
descent direct toward his destination. The controller advised the pilot to descend at his discretion. Radar 
showed the airplane in a descending right turn before radar contact was lost at 2,900 ft mean sea level. 
There were no eyewitnesses, and search personnel reported rain and thunderstorms in the area about the 
time of the accident.
The distribution of the wreckage was consistent with an in-flight breakup. Examination of the airframe 
revealed overload failures of the empennage and wings. No pre-impact airframe structural anomalies 
were found, and the propeller showed evidence of rotation at the time of impact. Further, there was no 
evidence of pilot impairment or incapacitation.
Review of weather information indicated that the pilot most likely encountered instrument 
meteorological conditions as the airplane descended during the last several minutes of flight. During this 
time, it is likely that the pilot became disoriented while attempting to maneuver in convective, restricted 
visibility conditions, and lost control of the airplane. The transition from visual to instrument flight 
conditions would have been conducive to the development of spatial disorientation; the turning descent 
before the loss of radar contact and the in-flight breakup are also consistent with a loss of control due to 
spatial disorientation.
