Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Ramona, California
Accident Number:
WPR17FA063
Date & Time:
February 12, 2017, 14:10 Local 
Registration:
N2179L
Aircraft:
Cessna 172
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Controlled flight into terr/obj (CFIT)
Injuries:
1 Fatal, 2 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The airplane departed on an instructional flight with a flight instructor in the right front seat, a student 
pilot in the left front seat, and a passenger in the right rear seat. They completed maneuvers in a practice 
area, flew to a valley located in mountainous terrain, and performed a simulated engine failure 
maneuver. The flight instructor and the student pilot provided differing accounts of the events that 
followed the simulated engine failure maneuver. According to the flight instructor, after performing the 
simulated engine failure maneuver, the student pilot advanced the throttle to full power and turned east 
toward rising terrain. The flight instructor reported that the gauges all read normal, but the airplane 
would not outclimb the approaching terrain. He took over the controls but could not turn left or right due 
to the rising terrain on both sides of the airplane. According to the instructor, he had no choice but to 
crash the airplane. 
According to the student pilot, the flight instructor told him to turn east towards the rising terrain and 
then took control of the airplane. The student reported that the flight instructor made a comment about 
demonstrating the airplane's performance, added full power, leaned the mixture, flew straight for 5 
seconds, and then said an expletive shortly before the airplane crashed into a mountain.
Flight track data recovered from a personal electronic device onboard the airplane showed that, after the 
simulated engine failure maneuver, the airplane climbed and turned east entering terrain that rose in 
front and on both sides of the airplane. The track continued to climb for about 1 minute 5 seconds before 
reaching the accident site.
Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed no evidence of any preimpact mechanical 
malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation. According to the pilot's operating 
handbook for the airplane, at its maximum gross weight, under standard conditions, with no flaps and 
full throttle, the airplane was capable of climbing at a maximum rate of 625 ft per minute, at 73 knots 
indicated airspeed, at 2,000 ft mean sea level (msl). 
