Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Wheatland, Wyoming
Accident Number:
GAA17CA141
Date & Time:
February 13, 2017, 14:50 Local 
Registration:
N1421D
Aircraft:
Cessna 170
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control on ground
Injuries:
3 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The flight instructor in the tailwheel-equipped airplane reported that, during the landing roll, as soon as 
the tailwheel touched the runway, the airplane veered to the right. He added that he attempted to recover 
by applying full left rudder, left brake, and right aileron, but the left wing impacted the ground as the 
airplane exited the runway to the right. Subsequently, the airplane nosed over.
The airplane sustained substantial damage to the right wing lift strut, both wings, and empennage.
The flight instructor reported that skid marks on the runway indicated that the tailwheel was not rolling 
freely. He added that, during a postaccident inspection, the left brake pedal went to the lower limit on an 
initial depression, but later held brake pressure during a second depression. He reported that he would 
not have been able to recover the airplane back to centerline because of the initial brake pressure 
response.
Further, the flight instructor reported that, about 10 minutes before the accident, the wind was 310° at 13 
knots, gusting to 19 knots.
In a followup e-mail, the flight instructor reported that there were no brake or tailwheel anomalies noted 
during the run-up or departure. He also reported that the student pilot did not make any noticeable 
control inputs during the landing sequence.
The Federal Aviation Administration inspector reported that, during a postaccident examination of the 
airplane 2 days after the accident, he "saw nothing abnormal with the brakes," and he added that the 
tailwheel was turning. 
The airplane landed on runway 26. An online commercial weather service provider reported that a 
nearby station, about 2 minutes before the accident, reported wind 010° at 21 mph, gusting to 24 mph.
