Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Climax, Georgia
Accident Number:
ERA17FA107
Date & Time:
February 16, 2017, 18:52 Local 
Registration:
N3434G
Aircraft:
Beech A45
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was flying a local, personal flight from his personal airstrip after sundown. A witness who 
heard the airplane before the crash reported that the engine made a "sputtering" sound. The airplane 
collided with two tall trees and came to rest inverted on the approach end of the runway. The propeller 
did not exhibit indications of rotational damage. Although the right fuel tank was breached from impact 
and no fuel was found inside, the left tank contained 11 gallons of fuel.
An annual inspection was completed on the airframe and engine about 2.2 hours before the accident. An 
examination of the engine fuel lines found the throttle and metering unit outlet AN "B" nut was less than 
finger-tight. When the fuel manifold valve cap was opened, fuel leaked from the loose throttle and 
metering unit outlet AN "B" nut. Compressed air was passed through the throttle and metering unit inlet 
fuel line; bubbles and fuel could be seen coming out of the fuel outlet AN fitting. The condition of the 
fuel lines was an inspection item specifically noted as completed during the annual inspection. The 
throttle and metering unit outlet "B" nut most likely was not adequately secured during the inspection 
and backed off during the 2.2-hour previous flight and the 12-minute accident flight, which subsequently 
resulted in a total loss of engine power. The pilot was likely attempting to return to the runway, as the 
landing gear were extended and the flaps were up at the time of the accident. However, since the 
accident occurred concurrently with the end of civil twilight, it is possible that he did not see the trees on 
final approach due to the darkening conditions.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The failure of maintenance personnel to ensure that the throttle and fuel metering unit AN "B" 
nut was secured, which resulted in a total loss of engine power in flight and a subsequent 
collision with trees while attempting to land after sunset.
