Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Bayonne, New Jersey
Accident Number:
ERA17LA110
Date & Time:
February 19, 2017, 10:00 Local 
Registration:
N15745
Aircraft:
Piper PA28R
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot reported that the personal local flight was uneventful until the engine made an odd 
noise, which was followed by a partial loss of engine power. The pilot attempted to troubleshoot the 
problem, but the engine power was not fully restored, and the airplane was unable to maintain altitude, 
so the pilot made a forced landing to a road. The airplane struck power lines and vehicles before coming 
to rest on a sidewalk.
Postaccident examination of the engine revealed that the No. 3 cylinder's intake valve had separated. 
The valve stem was found in the oil pan, and the remainder of the valve was found in its intake 
manifold. Metallurgical examination of the No. 3 cylinder assembly, including the fractured intake 
valve, revealed that the valve was fractured in the stem in two places and through the head in one place. 
The interior of the cylinder exhibited damage consistent with impacts from the fractured valve. The 
connecting rod was intact, but the bearings were worn through both the babbit and copper layers. 
Examination of the fracture surfaces revealed fatigue cracks initiating from the fillet radius between the 
valve stem tip and the key area of the stem shaft. The other fractures were consistent with overstress.
Further examination of the engine case revealed that all eight hydraulic valve tappet plungers were 
installed 180° opposite of the proper installation contained in the manufacturer's overhaul manual. The 
reversed installation of the plunger would have adversely affected the operation of the No. 3 cylinder's 
intake valve and placed an abnormal load on the valve's tip. A review of the engine's maintenance 
logbook revealed that the engine had been repaired about 35.7 hours before the accident. At that time, all 
four cylinders were removed and replaced, including the hydraulic valve tappet plunger assemblies. 
Given that the cylinders had been recently removed and reinstalled on the engine, including the 
hydraulic valve tappet plungers, it is likely that the engine experienced a partial loss of engine power 
due to maintenance personnel's improper installation of the No. 3 cylinder's hydraulic valve tappet 
plunger.
