Page 1 of 12
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Winder, Georgia
Accident Number:
ERA17FA106
Date & Time:
February 16, 2017, 14:00 Local 
Registration:
N24695
Aircraft:
Beech C23
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Aircraft loading event
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The student pilot, who had recently purchased the airplane, and a flight instructor were conducting a 
local instructional flight. Another pilot reported that, while approaching the airport for landing, he heard 
an airplane (likely the accident airplane) announce over the common traffic advisory frequency that they 
would be departing runway 31; however, he did not see the airplane depart. A witness, who was driving 
on a highway near airport, observed the accident airplane fly in front of her heading south/southeast. She 
stated that the airplane seemed to be flying low and fast as it went over the highway. It then began to 
nose down, then level out, and "tilt to the right." The witness then lost sight of the airplane behind trees.
The airplane impacted trees and terrain on a southeasterly heading about 500 ft west of the departure end 
of runway 31 (the runway 13 threshold). Given the location and orientation of the wreckage, it is 
possible that the flight instructor and student departed runway 31 and were attempting to return to the 
airport to land on the opposite runway (13) when they experienced a loss of control. As the airplane 
turned back toward runway 13, the pilots would have encountered an 8-knot gusting to 14-knot tailwind, 
which would have increased the airplane's ground speed and closure rate with terrain and obstacles 
surrounding the airport and the runway.
Weight and balance calculations revealed that, although the airplane was operating below its maximum 
gross weight at the time of the accident, its center of gravity (CG) was forward of the limit established 
by the manufacturer. Since airplane stability and control are affected by improper balance, exceedance 
of the forward limit would likely have resulted in a nose-heavy condition and difficulty in controlling 
and raising the nose, especially during takeoff and landing.
Although the reason for the decision to land on the opposite runway could not be determined, it is likely 
that the airplane's forward CG affected its control characteristics and that the trim required to help 
relieve the control forces imposed by the forward CG may have resulted in reduced pitch control travel 
at the lower airspeeds required for approach and landing. Examination of the airplane and engine did not 
reveal evidence of any preimpact malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation. 
There was evidence of fuel onboard, and the lack of airframe, flight control, and engine anomalies were 
