Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Cedar Key, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA17FA108
Date & Time:
February 12, 2017, 11:06 Local 
Registration:
N4504X
Aircraft:
Piper PA28R
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
3 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The non-instrument rated private pilot departed in the airplane in visual meteorological conditions, 
which prevailed along most of the route of the over-water cross-country flight. However, about 20 miles 
from the destination airport, the airplane encountered an area of instrument meteorological conditions 
(IMC) that consisted of overcast clouds with bases about 400 ft above the water. According to GPS data, 
when the airplane reached this area, it began to descend from a cruising altitude of 2,400 ft. About 7 
minutes later, at an altitude of about 1,000 ft, the airplane began a left, descending, 180° turn during 
which the altitude fluctuated until the data ended about 600 ft above the water near the accident site. The 
airplane continued to descend until it impacted the water. Examination of the wreckage did not reveal 
any evidence of preimpact mechanical malfunctions that would have precluded normal operation. The 
pilot had logged only 4.6 hours of simulated instrument experience and had no documented actual 
instrument experience. No evidence was found indicating that the pilot obtained an official weather 
briefing before the flight. If he had obtained such a briefing, he would have been told that visual flight 
rules (VFR) flight was not recommended due to IMC near the destination airport. Given the instrument 
conditions in the destination area and the pilot's limited instrument flying experience, it is likely that the 
pilot attempted to continue VFR flight into IMC, experienced spatial disorientation, and lost control of 
the airplane.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The non-instrument-rated pilot's improper decision to continue visual flight rules flight into 
instrument meteorological conditions, which resulted in spatial disorientation and a loss of 
airplane control.
