Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Dawsonville, Georgia
Accident Number:
ERA17LA109
Date & Time:
February 19, 2017, 12:15 Local 
Registration:
N99716
Aircraft:
Ercoupe 415
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Collision during takeoff/land
Injuries:
1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot recently purchased the airplane and was returning it to his home airport. Before the 
flight, he added 1/2 quart of oil to the engine, bringing the oil level to between 3 1/2 and 4 quarts. About 
30 minutes after departure, the pilot noticed that the oil pressure was dropping. He reduced engine 
power and turned the airplane toward the closest airport. The oil pressure continued to decrease, even 
though the engine continued to produce power, and the pilot chose to perform a precautionary landing 
on a road. Upon touchdown, the airplane skidded across the road until it impacted a tree and came to rest 
in a ditch. Examination of the engine revealed a hole in the oil sump consistent with impact damage, and 
oil was noted coming from the crankcase breather tube. In addition, oil was noted on the bottom of the 
airplane from the nose to the empennage. Even after the oil leaked from the broken oil sump and from 
the breather tube, the postaccident engine oil level was 3 1/2 quarts.
A subsequent engine run demonstrated that the engine would experience a momentary drop in oil 
pressure indication if the oil sump was overfilled. The engine and the oil pressure gauge otherwise 
operated normally. Since the pilot lacked operational experience with the airplane, it is likely that he 
unintentionally overfilled the oil sump, which resulted in an interaction between the oil in the sump and 
the rotating crankshaft. The interaction likely resulted in air bubbles becoming entrained in the oil and a 
subsequent oil pressure fluctuation. Additionally, since he checked the oil level following a previous 
flight, it was likely that the oil had not fully drained back into the sump when the reading was taken. 
Considering that the oil pressure gauge operated normally after the accident, it is unlikely that the gauge 
was producing a faulty reading in flight.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
