Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Gainesville, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN17LA105
Date & Time:
February 21, 2017, 00:20 Local 
Registration:
N6343L
Aircraft:
American Aviation AA 1A
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel exhaustion
Injuries:
1 Serious, 1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot was conducting a familiarization flight with the non-pilot-rated passenger, who had 
recently purchased the airplane. They flew to a nearby airport to practice touch-and-go landings. After 
completing about 15 landings, they proceeded to another airport to get fuel. About 5 minutes before 
reaching the airport, the passenger noticed that the fuel pressure gauge indicated 0 psi, but the engine 
was operating smoothly. The pilot turned on the electric fuel boost pump and the fuel pressure gauge 
returned to 5 psi. The boost pump remained on for the remainder of the flight. Upon arrival at the 
airport, a go-around was performed. The engine experienced a loss of power during the climb about 200 
ft above ground level and he performed a forced landing to a field short of the runway. 
Postaccident fuel consumption calculations revealed that the airplane likely contained about 1 gallon of 
fuel at the time of the accident, which would have been unusable. Examination of the fuel tanks revealed 
less than 1 cup of fuel in the left tank and no fuel remaining in the right tank. The fuel spill observed at 
the accident site by first responders was likely the 1 gallon of unusable fuel from the right tank, because 
the right wing was separated at the fuselage and its fuel line was fractured. No anomalies were noted 
with the engine and the propeller blades did not show any rotational signatures. 
Although the pilot reported that he flew the airplane during the final approach and go-around, there were 
discrepancies in his statements that suggested that the non-pilot rated passenger was actually 
manipulating the airplane controls during the loss of engine power. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
