Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
East Haven, Connecticut
Accident Number:
ERA17FA112
Date & Time:
February 22, 2017, 09:56 Local 
Registration:
N2452C
Aircraft:
Piper PA38
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Sys/Comp malf/fail (non-power)
Injuries:
1 Fatal, 1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The flight instructor and the student pilot were practicing touch-and-go landings in the airplane. During 
the initial climb after the fourth landing, the flight instructor reported an emergency to air traffic control 
and indicated that he was going to return and land on a runway at the airport. During that transmission, a 
stall warning horn was sounding. The airplane then spun to the left and descended to impact in a marsh.
The damage to the airplane was consistent with the airplane being in a left spin at impact, and the 
propeller displayed little damage, which is consistent with the engine not producing power at impact. 
The fuel selector handle was found positioned to the right main fuel tank; however, examination of the 
fuel selector's polymeric insert revealed that it had fractured and was in a position that provided 
openings of about 20% for the right main fuel tank inlet and for the engine outlet, instead of the 100% 
openings that would have been present with an intact polymeric insert. With only 20% of the normal 
fuel flow available, the airplane likely experienced a total loss of engine power due to fuel starvation. 
One of the pilots likely switched fuel tank positions during the previous touch-and-go landing, and the 
polymeric insert failed at that time. Examination of the wreckage did not reveal any other preimpact 
mechanical malfunctions.
Metallurgical examination of the fuel selector valve revealed that the lower portion of the polymeric 
insert exhibited fracture features consistent with rotational ductile overstress. Abrasive wear was present 
on the outer portion of the insert due to contact with burs on the valve housing. The wear likely took 
place over a period during which the fuel selector handle would have been difficult to move and 
excessive force would have been required to move the handle from one position to another.
Review of maintenance records did not reveal any prior anomalies with the fuel selector. The airplane 
maintenance manual contained instructions, applicable to 100-hour inspections, for the fuel selector to 
be inspected for condition, security, and operation. The instructions stated that, if the valve binds, sticks, 
or is otherwise difficult to operate, the fuel selector valve should be lubricated. However, about 5 
months had passed since the most recent 100-hour inspection was completed on the airplane. During that 
time, the airplane had been operated about 78 hours. The investigation could not determine the condition 
