Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Springfield, Ohio
Accident Number:
CEN17FA108
Date & Time:
February 19, 2017, 16:03 Local 
Registration:
N62888
Aircraft:
MACLEOD HOMEBUILT
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot departed the grass airstrip on a personal local flight in the single-seat experimental, 
amateur-built airplane. Two witnesses saw the airplane flying low about treetop height and then saw its 
nose pitch up followed by the airplane descending to ground impact. Another witness heard a loud 
engine, looked up, and saw the airplane in a nose dive; he heard the engine until just before the airplane 
impacted the ground. The witness observations were consistent with the pilot failing to maintain control 
of the airplane, which resulted in the airplane exceeding its critical angle of attack and an aerodynamic 
stall. Because the airplane was flying low, there was not enough altitude for the pilot to recover the 
airplane from the stall.
Examination of the airframe and engine did not reveal evidence of any preimpact mechanical 
malfunctions that would have precluded normal operation. The propeller blades showed no rotational 
damage, consistent with the engine not producing power at impact. However, a witness reported hearing 
the engine during descent until just prior to impact. The investigation could not determine if the engine 
lost power during descent or if the pilot reduced power prior to impact.
The shoulder harness assembly was found behind the forward bulkhead, unable to be accessed by the 
pilot. Additionally, the shoulder harness was found wrapped around the rudder cable. However, the wear 
on the shoulder harness was consistent with having been wrapped around the rudder cables for a while 
indicating it did not likely affect the operation of the rudder. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
