Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Stevensville, Montana
Accident Number:
WPR17LA064
Date & Time:
February 23, 2017, 13:00 Local 
Registration:
N3803J
Aircraft:
Beech A36TC
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Miscellaneous/other
Injuries:
2 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot reported that before takeoff from his home airport for the personal flight, he noted the midfield 
windsock at the airport and believed that he would have a straight crosswind with gusts coming from 
both directions. 
The pilot reported that the airplane lifted off about 80 knots. However, the airplane would not climb or 
accelerate, and the pilot felt that there was a rapid decrease in power. He ensured that the engine controls 
were in their appropriate positions for full takeoff power, but the airplane still would not climb. The 
airplane struck level terrain adjoining the right side of the runway and came to rest upright, about 300 ft 
from the runway centerline.
A witness reported that the airplane's engine sounded "strong and loud." The airplane lifted off about 
2,400 ft from the runway threshold and attained an altitude of about 50 ft above ground level when the 
airplane began a steep right descending turn.
Although the pilot reported that he referenced the windsock and believed that he would be taking off 
with a direct crosswind, the airport's automated weather observation system indicated a tailwind 
component of about 8.5 to 11.2 knots for the takeoff runway at the time. 
The accident runway was 3,800 ft long. Review of the airplane manufacturer's performance data 
indicated that a takeoff with maximum allowable gross weight and no flaps from a level runway with a 
10-knot tailwind would have required a ground roll of about 2,109 ft and required about 3,385 ft to clear 
a 50-ft obstacle. The airplane manufacturer's published performance data did not account for tailwind 
components above 10 knots. The runway had a 1.94% uphill slope in the takeoff direction, but the 
performance data did not account for runway slope. Calculations indicated that the airplane was about 
220 lbs above the maximum allowable takeoff weight. Each of these three factors would increase the 
takeoff distance and decrease the airplane climb performance, but there were no means for the pilot or 
investigators to quantify their individual or collective effects. 
