Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Marysville, California
Accident Number:
WPR17LA067
Date & Time:
February 23, 2017, 17:30 Local 
Registration:
N470LM
Aircraft:
GUARINO Vans
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
2 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot stated that while en route on the personal cross-country flight, the engine experienced a loss of 
thrust, and the airspeed slowed. The propeller was windmilling, but the throttle had no effect on the 
engine. The pilot noted that the propeller circuit breaker had popped out but did not note any other 
indications of an anomaly in the cockpit. In addition, with the engine operating at partial power, the pilot 
was unable to maintain level flight so he configured the airplane for the best glide speed. He attempted 
to regain engine power twice and switched fuel tanks, to no avail. The pilot made a forced landing in a 
soft field, which resulted in substantial damage to the airframe. 
A postaccident examination noted no evidence of engine mechanical anomalies or thermal distress. 
There were several wires and a wiring harness disconnected in between the cockpit and the firewall; it is 
unknown if this happened after impact. During an attempted engine test, a fuel source was rigged to the 
left fuel tank; the starter solenoid was heard activating, but the engine would not start. An external 
power source was used in an attempt to start the engine; the engine cranked but would not start. Fuel 
continuity and pressure in the system was confirmed. The fragmentation of the wreckage, specifically 
the electrical system, precluded a definitive determination of the cause of the engine failure. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
A partial loss of engine power for reasons that could not be determined due to the 
fragmentation of the electrical system.
