Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Rattan, Oklahoma
Accident Number:
CEN17LA121
Date & Time:
February 14, 2017, 11:45 Local 
Registration:
N1551C
Aircraft:
Beech C90A
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Electrical system malf/failure
Injuries:
3 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 135: Air taxi & commuter - Non-scheduled - Air Medical (Unspecified)
Analysis 
The pilot stated that the engine start and airplane power-up were normal for the air medical flight with 
two medical crewmembers. The engine ice vanes were lowered (as required for ground operations) and 
then were subsequently raised before takeoff. Takeoff and climbout were routine, and the pilot leveled 
off the airplane at the assigned cruise altitude. The air traffic controller informed the pilot of heavy 
showers near the destination airport, and the pilot "put the ice vanes down." The pilot indicated that, 
shortly afterward, the airplane experienced two "quick" electrical power fluctuations in which 
"everything went away and then came back," and "[s]econds later the entire [electrical] system failed." 
Due to the associated loss of navigation capability while operating in instrument meteorological 
conditions (IMC), the pilot set a general course for better weather conditions based on information from 
his preflight weather briefing. While the pilot attempted to find a suitable hole in the clouds to descend 
through under visual conditions, the left engine lost power. The pilot ultimately located a field through 
the cloud cover and executed a single-engine off-airport landing, which resulted in substantial damage to 
the right engine mount and firewall. 
A postaccident examination of the airplane and systems did not reveal any anomalies consistent with an 
in-flight electrical system malfunction. The three-position ignition and engine start/starter-only switches 
were in the ON position, and the engine anti-ice switches were in the ON position. When the airplane 
battery was initially checked during the examination, the voltmeter indicated 10.7 volts (normal voltage 
is 12 volts); the battery was charged and appeared to function normally thereafter.
The loss of electrical power was likely initiated by the pilot inadvertently selecting the engine start 
switches instead of the engine anti-ice (ice vane) switches. This resulted in the starter/generators 
changing to starter operation and taking the generator function offline. Airplane electrical power was 
then being supplied solely by the battery, which caused it to deplete and led to a subsequent loss of 
electrical power to the airplane.
