Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Centennial, Colorado
Accident Number:
CEN17LA122
Date & Time:
February 18, 2017, 15:29 Local 
Registration:
N2702R
Aircraft:
Piper PA 28R-200
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Serious, 1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
A flight instructor and a private pilot receiving instruction were departing for an instructional flight from 
runway 17L. The pilot receiving instruction reported that after liftoff, the engine rpm was high but that 
the airplane was not gaining altitude. The instructor reported that shortly after takeoff, he felt as if 
something was pushing the airplane downward. He stated that the engine had full rpm and that the 
throttle and mixture controls were full forward. He recalled seeing that the airspeed was about 65 knots 
and hearing the stall warning horn. The pilot receiving instruction reported that the airspeed was at 55 
knots before he braced for impact. The airplane contacted the ground about 1 mile from the end of the 
runway. Landing gear track marks showed all three landing gear on the ground with a straight track until 
the airplane impacted a tree, after which it crossed a parking lot driveway, skidded about 100 ft, and 
came to rest inverted. 
About 2 minutes before the airplane departed, a small jet airplane had taken off from the same runway. 
In addition, the winds at the time of the accident were from 170° at 15 knots, gusting to 23 knots. After 
the accident, the private pilot reported that he was concerned about wake turbulence from the small jet, 
and the flight instructor reported that he thought that the airplane was affected by wind shear. 
Examination of the airframe and engine did not reveal any preimpact mechanical malfunctions or 
failures that would have precluded normal operation. Based on the available information, the reason for 
the loss of control could not be determined.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
