Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Cahokia, Illinois
Accident Number:
CEN17CA140
Date & Time:
February 23, 2017,   
Registration:
N51827
Aircraft:
Cessna 172R
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Unknown or undetermined
Injuries:
N/A
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The airplane was parked on the operator's ramp when Federal Aviation Administration inspector(s), 
during a routine ramp inspection, found that the airplane had substantial damage to the firewall and 
structure aft of the firewall. Airplane maintenance records showed an entry stating that the damage was 
due to a suspected hard landing. The operator stated that the damage must have occurred between the 
airplane's 100-hour inspection on September 27 and an oil change performed on October 24, 2016. The 
operator's mechanic stated that the damage was found when the engine cowl was removed for the oil 
change. 
A review of airplane flight logs showed about 20 different people had flown the airplane over 48 flights 
between the time of the 100-hour inspection and the oil change. On October 8, 2016, a student pilot was 
performing touch and gos when the airplane bounced two or three times during the flight's final landing. 
The student pilot stated that, when she turned off the runway onto the taxiway, she noticed the airplane 
was not steering properly and reported to the air traffic control tower that she had some mechanical 
difficulty that required maintenance assistance. The student pilot's flight instructor and a company 
lineman responded and noticed that the airplane had a flat nosewheel tire. The lineman inflated the tire, 
and the student pilot and flight instructor taxied the airplane to the operator's maintenance facility. The 
flight instructor informed the operator's mechanic of the bounced landing and flat tire. The mechanic 
stated that he replaced the nose tire, performed a brief exterior walk-around visual inspection of the 
airplane, noting it appeared airworthy, and returned it to service. A hard landing inspection was not 
performed. Other than the bounced landing reported on October 8, 2016, no other concerns about the 
other flights were reported to the operator.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
