Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
San Juan, Puerto Rico
Accident Number:
ERA17FA195
Date & Time:
June 3, 2017, 14:17 Local 
Registration:
N21WW
Aircraft:
Piper PA23
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal, 2 Serious, 1 
Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 135: Air taxi & commuter - Non-scheduled
Analysis 
The commercial pilot was conducting an on-demand air taxi flight with three passengers on board the 
multiengine airplane. The majority of the pilot's multiengine experience was in a larger airplane with 
more powerful engines. He had about 20 hours of experience in the accident airplane make and model 
and had completed training in it about 9 days before the accident. The pilot stated that, after receiving 
clearance for takeoff from air traffic control, he performed the takeoff roll and rotated the airplane at 85 
knots. The airplane climbed to about 100 ft above ground level (agl), but then did not continue to climb 
or accelerate. The airplane then yawed left, and the left engine rpm needle indicated less than the right 
engine rpm, but it remained in the green arc. Subsequently, the pilot turned the airplane left with the yaw 
to return to the airport, but the airplane was unable to maintain altitude and subsequently impacted 
water. The pilot further stated that, other than the rpm difference, there were no other preimpact 
mechanical malfunctions with the airplane.
The front seat passenger reported that he was not a pilot but that he was familiar with airplanes. He 
stated that the airplane initially gained some altitude, but that it then yawed left. He then noticed that the 
pilot did not correct the yaw and let the airplane turn perpendicular to the wind, at which point he 
mentally questioned the pilot's competency and felt compelled to take the controls, but he did not touch 
anything. The airplane lost altitude and then flew under a tree line while remaining in a left banking 
turn. The pilot then moved the yoke abruptly right, and the airplane collided with the water. The front 
seat passenger added that the sound of the engines did not change during the flight and that he noted no 
smoke or fuel odor.
Airport surveillance video confirmed that the airplane climbed to about 100 to 150 ft agl, which is out of 
ground effect, as it passed over the departure end of the runway. The airplane remained in a nose-up 
attitude as it then began to descend and, begin a shallow left turn; it then impacted the water.
Examination of the airplane did not reveal any preimpact mechanical malfunctions that would have 
precluded normal operation, and the airplane was about 350 lbs below its maximum gross weight. 
