Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
New Berlin, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN17FA208
Date & Time:
June 3, 2017, 16:30 Local 
Registration:
N956ML
Aircraft:
Michael S. Logan Kitfox
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot departed on the local flight to practice touch-and-go takeoffs and landings in the 
experimental, amateur-built airplane. The airplane impacted flat, open terrain just after takeoff and was 
consumed by a post-impact fire. There were no witnesses to the accident. The wreckage was confined to 
a small area, and the orientation of the wreckage was consistent with an aerodynamic stall and spin. 
Examination of the airframe revealed no evidence of mechanical malfunctions or failures. Engine drive 
train continuity was established. The propeller blades and spinner did not exhibit evidence of rotation at 
the time of impact. The damage precluded a thorough examination of the engine ignition system.
The pilot's wife said that the pilot had been having ignition issues with the airplane, and described them 
as the engine missing or quitting entirely during high-powered run-ups. An acquaintance of the pilot 
reported that the pilot had resolved the ignition problem; however, the pilot did not specify how he had 
done so. There was no record that the airframe or engine had received a condition inspection in the 
previous 12 years, and the pilot did not hold a current flight review. 
Given the orientation of the wreckage and the lack of rotational signatures on the propeller blades, it is 
likely that the engine experienced a total loss of power just after takeoff. The reason for the loss of 
power could not be determined based on the available evidence. Following the loss of power, the pilot 
failed to maintain adequate airspeed, which resulted in exceeding the airplane's critical angle of attack 
and a subsequent aerodynamic stall and subsequent spin.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
A total loss of engine power for reasons that could not be determined based on the available 
information, and the pilot's subsequent failure to maintain adequate airspeed, which resulted in 
the airplane exceeding its critical angle of attack and experiencing an aerodynamic stall/spin.
