Page 1 of 14
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Santa Rosa Valley, California
Accident Number:
WPR17FA120
Date & Time:
June 4, 2017, 15:29 Local 
Registration:
N4871L
Aircraft:
Piper PA 28-180
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Abrupt maneuver
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The commercial pilot and his son were conducting a personal flight. About 15 minutes after takeoff, the 
airplane flew a series of passes over a horse arena where the pilot's daughter was riding. The arena was 
situated within a geographic bowl depression, surrounded by hilly terrain and adjacent to three sets of 
power transmission lines. A pilot witness in an airplane flying above the accident airplane described the 
accident airplane's flight path as low and erratic, and a witness close to the arena described the initial 
pass as "aggressive." The pilot conducted the final pass over the arena at a much lower altitude than the 
previous passes. Multiple witnesses described the engine noise as "sputtering" and then going quiet 
either during the descent for the final pass, or just as the airplane flew over the arena. The engine sound 
then increased as the airplane climbed and entered a steep right bank, then descended into power lines 
and impacted the ground about 600 ft south of the arena. Calculations based on witness reports and 
impact geometry indicated that the radius of the turn before impact would have required a high angle of 
bank, resulting in an increase in stall speed, which would have led to an accelerated stall at an altitude 
too low for recovery.
Examination revealed no anomalies with the airframe or engine that would have precluded normal 
operation, and damage signatures and witness accounts indicated that the engine was producing power at 
the time of the accident. Damage to the airplane's fuel tanks indicated that they contained fuel at the time 
of impact.
The pilot's son, who was not a pilot, was seated in the front left seat. Since the airplane was equipped 
with dual controls, it could not be determined who was flying the airplane at the time of the accident.
The pilot was familiar with the terrain in the area of the accident site. Witnesses stated that he had 
performed low passes there multiple times in the past and was aware of the power lines at the edge of 
the arena. The reduction in engine noise as reported by witnesses could have been the result of an actual 
loss of engine power or a power reduction made by the pilot to descend more rapidly in order to perform 
the pass at a lower altitude; however, if the pilot had been flying at an appropriate and safe altitude and 
the airplane had experienced a loss of engine power, it would have been within gliding distance of open 
