Page 1 of 11
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Goodyear, Arizona
Accident Number:
WPR17LA121
Date & Time:
June 4, 2017, 09:17 Local 
Registration:
N51FB
Aircraft:
Bob Frederick Titan T-51
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Powerplant sys/comp malf/fail
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot indicated that, immediately after takeoff for the local flight, the experimental, 
amateur-built airplane began to vibrate. As he transitioned the airplane to the downwind leg, the 
vibration increased, and the engine then experienced an overspeed and lost all power. The cockpit filled 
with smoke and the pilot subsequently performed a forced off-airport landing, which resulted in 
substantial damage to the left wing and aft fuselage.
The airplane had accrued about 43 flight hours since its construction, which was completed about 2 
years before the accident.
Examination of the propeller speed reduction gearbox revealed that the teeth of the input drive gear had 
separated, which caused a loss of drive continuity to the propeller. The drive and idler gears did not 
appear to meet the manufacturer's case hardness requirements; however, evidence suggests that the 
gearbox had undergone severe heat buildup during the failure sequence, which may have subsequently 
altered the hardness. Oil starvation or exhaustion likely did not occur, as the gearbox bearings were 
intact and largely undamaged. Due to damage sustained to the gears, an accurate assessment of the 
initial failure mode could not be determined. Thus, the investigation could not determine the reason for 
the failure of the propeller speed reduction gearbox input drive gear.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
Failure of the propeller speed reduction gearbox input drive gear during the airplane's initial climb for 
reasons that could not be determined due to extensive damage.
