Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Albuquerque, New Mexico
Accident Number:
CEN17LA216
Date & Time:
June 4, 2017, 08:24 Local 
Registration:
N78DZ
Aircraft:
WILLIAM D TELFAIR/ZIA Z TELFAI 
EXCALIBUR
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Flight control sys malf/fail
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The commercial pilot was conducting a personal flight in the experimental amateur-built airplane. After 
about 1 hour of flight, the airplane was straight and level, at an airspeed of about 75 mph, when the pitch 
control became erratic. The pilot stated that the control stick started "slamming" fore and aft to the 
limits, the airplane nose began pitching up and down, and the airplane began buffeting "like it was going 
to come apart." The pilot declared an emergency and reduced airspeed to 50 to 60 mph, which slightly 
lessened the fore-and-aft stick movement and pitch but did not control it. The pilot turned to clear steep 
terrain and chose a field for an emergency landing. He was able to make final directional corrections and 
flew the airplane to landing about 40 to 45 mph and 200 to 300 ft per minute rate of descent. The left 
wing and horizontal stabilizer struck the ground. Examination of the airplane revealed a broken right 
elevator control rod; the left elevator control rod was not broken and moved normally. The broken 
control rod was a factory-supplied, 1/2-inch aluminum tube with bearings at each end. The attach points 
of the control rods appeared to be intact, the bearings were still connected and safety wired, and all other 
control rod linkages were connected. Further examination revealed no indication of any preexisting 
failure on the fracture surface of the right elevator control rod. The deformation of the rod was indicative 
of a bending failure. The pilot reported after the accident that he may have encountered flutter, but it 
could not be determined when or if that occurred. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The loss of pitch control due to the overload failure of the control rod.
