Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Tokyo, 
Incident Number:
ENG17IA026
Date & Time:
June 7, 2017, 09:50 UTC 
Registration:
N668US
Aircraft:
Boeing 747 451
Aircraft Damage:
None
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
326 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 121: Air carrier - Scheduled
Analysis 
The disassembly and examination of the engine revealed a 5th stage compressor blade was fractured 
transversely across the airfoil directly above the blade root platform.  Unfortunately, that fractured blade 
was lost during the shipment of the engine parts from Delta Air Lines to P&W's Material and Processes 
Engineering Laboratory.  However, the similarity of the elliptical-shaped fracture surface on that 5th 
stage compressor blade to the elliptical-shaped fracture surfaces on 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th compressor 
blades that were confirmed as fatigue fractures would indicate the 5th stage compressor blade also 
fractured due to a fatigue crack.  The PN 5th stage blade that fractured in this engine and the compressor 
blade that it had superseded had a combined total of 38 airfoil fractures that would suggest some subtle 
interrelationship that would cause a resonance leading to a fracture.  A detailed examination of the HPC 
did not identify anything that could have triggered an airflow disturbance.  The fractured blade 5th stage 
compressor blade was subsequently superseded with a new blade in 2011 that has not experienced any 
fractures suggesting that whatever was causing the fractures was designed out.
The engine's turbine sections sustained extensive thermal and mechanical damage.  When the 5th stage 
compressor blade fractured, the cascade of damage through the HPC disabled the compressor's ability to 
pump air.  The FDR showed that following the loss of power after the 5th stage compressor blade 
fractured, the fuel flow dropped to zero but then recovered to a sub idle level probably from the 
electronic control's auto relight feature activating the igniter plugs.  Although the fuel flow was less than 
what was seen when the airplane taxied out for departure, with little to no airflow through the engine, 
the combustion flame would stagnate around the turbine vanes and blades burning off the early stages 
and the liberated pieces causing the mechanical damage to the trailing stages.  
