Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Tamiami, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA17LA202
Date & Time:
June 10, 2017, 10:50 Local 
Registration:
N881AV
Aircraft:
Cessna 172P
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel related
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
Following an uneventful preflight inspection of the airplane, the student pilot and the flight 
instructor taxied and then began their runup checks of the engine. The flight instructor stated 
that during the runup he noted a “normal” drop in engine rpm when they tested the carburetor 
heat, both with power on the engine and with the throttle pulled back to idle. The subsequent 
takeoff takeoff was normal, but at about 350 ft above the ground, the flight instructor heard a 
slight decrease in engine power; he asked the student pilot if he was guarding the throttle, and 
he responded that he was. The power then came back. Then, at about 400 ft above the ground, 
the engine lost power again. The flight instructor stated that this time it was significant, as it 
dropped to 1,900 rpm and was fluctuating. The flight instructor then took the controls of the 
airplane, after which the power dropped to 1,100 rpm and continued to fluctuate. There was no 
available runway remaining and the airplane was losing altitude, so the flight instructor landed 
the airplane in a grass field on the airport property. He stated that on touchdown, he had very 
poor braking capability (likely due to the wet grass). The airplane struck a tree with the left 
wing, then struck the airport fence and substantially damaged the airplane’s wings. 
Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed an adequate supply of uncontaminated fuel. 
Test runs of the engine were performed, during which the engine ran without hesitation and 
displayed no evidence of preimpact failures or malfunctions that would have precluded normal 
operation. Review of a carburetor icing probability chart revealed that the atmospheric 
conditions at the time of the accident were conducive to the formation of carburetor ice. Given 
this information, it is likely that while operating the airplane on the ground prior to takeoff, a 
period during which the engine would typically be operating at low power, carburetor ice began 
forming, which continued until the engine began losing engine power during the initial climb.
Probable Cause and Findings
