Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Suffolk, New York
Accident Number:
ERA17LA203
Date & Time:
June 12, 2017, 06:15 Local 
Registration:
N13306
Aircraft:
Cessna 172
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
According to the private pilot, while en route during a cross-country personal flight, he heard a "loud 
pop," followed by the engine losing all power. He declared an emergency, unsuccessfully attempted to 
restart the engine, and turned the airplane toward a golf course. During the landing, the airplane struck a 
tree, which resulted in substantial damage to the right wing. 
Postaccident examination of the engine revealed that the crankshaft gear alignment dowel, which sets 
the rotational alignment of the gear with respect to the crankshaft, had fractured; one half of the dowel 
was retained in the crankshaft and was contacting the gear, and the other half of the dowel was retained 
in the pilot flange hole. Examination of the fracture surface indicated that the dowel fractured in fatigue, 
initially in unidirectional bending that started on the side with the wear but transitioned to reverse 
bending fatigue before the final failure. Rub marks were observed on parts of the gear in contact with 
the crankshaft and along the interface between the gear and the lock plate.
This evidence indicates that the bolt that fastened the crankshaft gear to the crankshaft was either not 
torqued to the proper value during assembly or that the bolt was torqued to the proper value but 
gradually lost preload due to an installation error. With insufficient preload, the gear would have placed 
unintended stresses on the alignment dowel, which would have resulted in wear and its eventual failure 
due to fatigue. Factors that could result in a loss of preload include improper installation of the lock 
plate or damage or debris trapped between the gear and the counterbore recess, which would prevent 
proper seating of the gear.
An engine manufacturer's service bulletin (SB) described the proper procedure for evaluating the 
condition of the crankshaft and crankshaft gear and the proper procedure for attaching the crankshaft 
gear to the crankshaft. One step stated that after aligning the crankshaft gear with the crankshaft using 
the alignment dowel, the bolt should be tightened to 125 inch-lbs of torque, followed by several checks 
to ensure that the gear was properly seated. After those checks were made, the final step was to tighten 
the bolt to 204 inch-lbs of torque.
