Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Chicago, Illinois
Incident Number:
ENG17IA028
Date & Time:
June 10, 2017, 17:50 Local 
Registration:
N715SK
Aircraft:
BOMBARDIER INC CL 600 2C10
Aircraft Damage:
Minor
Defining Event:
Powerplant sys/comp malf/fail
Injuries:
64 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 121: Air carrier - Scheduled
Analysis 
     The No. 1 engine failure was caused by combustion outer liner buckling due to low cycle (thermal) 
fatigue.  An axial crack that was about 2.5 inches long in the outer panel connected with a 
circumferential crack that was about 12 inches long between the 10 o'clock and 12:30 positions. At the 
junction of the two cracks, the outer liner was displaced (buckled) about 1.5 inches inward toward the 
engine centerline. The liner deformation caused an airflow disruption that prevented complete 
combustion of fuel in the combustion chamber and decreased engine performance margin. In response to 
the decrease in performance, the engine control system increased fuel flow in an attempt to compensate. 
The combination of increased fuel flow and incomplete combustion of the fuel injected into the 
combustion chamber led to delayed ignition of unconsumed fuel downstream of the combustion 
chamber (flame holder). The delayed ignition resulted in thermal damage to the high pressure turbine 
(HPT) hardware. The first stage HPT blades and vanes receive a high volume of cooling airflow and 
remained intact, but the HPT 2nd stage nozzle was thermally damaged and a nozzle vane segment at the 
10 o'clock position eventually separated. After separation of the HPT 2nd stage nozzle vane segment, all 
four stages of the LPT experienced severe impact damage as separated fragments moved through the 
gaspath. The HPT 2nd stage nozzle separation also resulted in LPT case burn through at the 10 o'clock 
position that allowed hot gases to escape and contact the engine fire detection loop, which triggered a 
fire warning. There was no evidence that high energy fragments exited the LPT case.
     Combustion liner cracks are a normal occurrence on high time parts. The engine line maintenance 
manual (LMM) includes inspection criteria with limits based on crack length and location. 
    SkyWest received a total of four GE customer notification reports (CNRs) for the incident engine 
related to reduced hot day performance margin. SkyWest complied with the CNR recommendation to 
perform a core engine water wash after receipt of each CNR. Although the first water wash was 
effective, the third (April 1, 2017) and fourth (May 6, 2017) attempts did not improve engine 
performance margin. The CNRs all also included a recommendation to perform a borescope inspection 
(BSI) of the HPC and HPT (recommendations 3 and 4). SkyWest performed a HPC BSI on June 6, 2017 
