Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
West Creek, New Jersey
Accident Number:
ERA17LA205
Date & Time:
June 12, 2017, 22:55 Local 
Registration:
N206TF
Aircraft:
Cessna P206
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel related
Injuries:
1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Other work use
Analysis 
The commercial pilot was on the second leg of a postmaintenance flight. The first flight leg, which was 
about 1-hour long, was uneventful, and the pilot reported that the fuel selector was positioned to the 
right tank during this flight leg. He landed the airplane but did not purchase fuel before departing for the 
return leg. The pilot reported that, during the return leg, the fuel selector was positioned to the left tank. 
While on final approach to the airport, the pilot added power to go around. He turned onto the crosswind 
and then downwind legs of the airport traffic pattern, and while on the downwind leg, the engine lost all 
power. The pilot switched the fuel selector to the right tank, but engine power was not restored. 
Realizing that the airplane would be unable to reach the runway, the pilot conducted a forced landing in 
trees, and the airplane came to rest inverted.
During postaccident examination, more than the unusable amount of fuel was drained from the left fuel 
tank, which was breached in two locations; only about 6 ounces of fuel were drained from the 
unbreached right fuel tank. No fuel was found in the engine-driven fuel pump or the flow divider, which 
is indicative of fuel starvation. Examination of the fuel supply system revealed no evidence of preimpact 
mechanical failures or malfunctions that would have precluded normal operation. The engine was started 
and operated briefly using the fuel that had been drained from the airplane with no discrepancies noted.
Although the pilot stated that he conducted the entire second flight leg with the fuel selector positioned 
to the left tank and then switched to the right tank after the engine lost power, the fuel selector was 
found positioned to the left tank, which had more than the unusable amount of fuel. Therefore, it is 
likely that the pilot was approaching the airport with the fuel selector positioned to the right tank, which 
ran out of fuel, and that he then switched to the left tank too late to restore engine power. Given this and 
the lack of fuel in the engine-driven fuel pump and flow divider, it is likely that the pilot mismanaged 
the fuel, which resulted in the loss of all engine power.
