Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Mountain Ranch, California
Accident Number:
WPR17FA125
Date & Time:
June 9, 2017, 14:30 Local 
Registration:
N3717Q
Aircraft:
Beech 95 C55
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
VFR encounter with IMC
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The instrument-rated commercial pilot departed on a 46-nautical-mile visual flight rules (VFR) flight in 
the multiengine airplane. Radar data indicated that, as the airplane approached the destination airport at 
an altitude about 500 ft above ground level, it turned northwest and climbed and appeared to be heading 
toward a nearby airport. The airplane then entered a right turning descent. The final radar target 
associated with the airplane was at 3,649 ft mean sea level (about 700 ft agl) about 1 nautical mile north 
of the accident site. 
The pilot received two weather briefings before departing on the accident flight, the second about 45 
minutes before departure. During the second briefing, the pilot was provided AIRMETs Tango and 
Sierra for moderate turbulence and mountain obscuration due to clouds and mist, valid for the route of 
flight and the area of the destination airport.  The pilot was also advised during this briefing that VFR 
flight was not recommended. 
Review of weather information revealed the presence of multiple cloud layers in the area of the accident 
site around the time of the accident, including scattered clouds at 1,600 ft above ground level (agl), a 
broken ceiling at 2,900 ft, and an overcast ceiling at 6,500 ft.
Despite the forecasts indicating marginal VFR conditions for the destination airport, the pilot chose to 
depart and continue into an area of low cloud ceilings and rising terrain. It is likely that, while 
maneuvering at low altitude, the terrain was obscured or the pilot's in-flight visibility was limited by the 
cloud conditions, which resulted in controlled flight into terrain.
Witness marks in the trees and damage to the airplane were consistent with a controlled flight into 
terrain event. The airframe and engine examination revealed no mechanical anomalies that would have 
precluded normal operation.
