Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Ruidoso, New Mexico
Accident Number:
CEN17FA227
Date & Time:
June 13, 2017, 22:10 Local 
Registration:
N48TA
Aircraft:
Beech E 90
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The commercial pilot had filed an instrument flight rules flight plan and was departing in dark night 
visual meteorological conditions on a cross-country personal flight. A witness at the departure airport 
stated that during takeoff, the airplane sounded and looked normal. The witness said that the airplane 
lifted off about halfway down runway 24, and there was "plenty" of runway remaining for the airplane 
to land. The witness lost sight of the airplane and did not see the accident because the airport hangars 
blocked her view. 
The wreckage was located about 2,400 ft southeast of the departure end of runway 24. Examination of 
the accident site indicated that the airplane impacted in a nose-down attitude with a left bank of about 
20°. A left turn during departure was consistent with the airport's published instrument departure 
procedures for obstacle avoidance, which required an immediate climbing left turn while proceeding to a 
navigational beacon located about 7 miles east-northeast of the airport.
Examination of the wreckage did not reveal any evidence of preimpact mechanical malfunctions that 
would have precluded normal operation. 
The pilot had reportedly been awake for about 15 hours and was conducting the departure about the time 
he normally went to sleep and, therefore, may have been fatigued about the time of the event; however, 
given the available evidence, it was impossible to determine the role of fatigue in this event.
Although the circumstances of the accident are consistent with spatial disorientation, there was 
insufficient evidence to determine whether it may have played a role in the sequence of events.
Probable Cause and Findings
