Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Ravenna, Ohio
Accident Number:
GAA17CA337
Date & Time:
June 11, 2017, 11:50 Local 
Registration:
N33FM
Aircraft:
Cessna 172
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The flight instructor reported that, during an instructional flight, while on short final, he told the student 
pilot to "pitch down" to maintain airspeed. He added that the student did not respond and that he again 
instructed the student to "pitch down now" while simultaneously pressing forward on the yoke. He 
further added that, as he pushed forward on the yoke, the student "pulled [back] with equal force on the 
yoke." Subsequently, the flight instructor pushed forward on the yoke "with greater force" than the 
previous attempt and stated, "my plane," to the student, but "continued to wrestle the controls with the 
student" as the airplane entered an aerodynamic stall. The airplane then impacted the runway threshold 
hard, the nose landing gear collapsed, and the airplane veered off the runway to the right.
The student pilot reported that this was his first flight with this flight instructor but that he had 
accumulated about 82 hours of dual instruction previously. He added that, during the second landing of 
the day, while on final approach, "the instructor had me pull the power and told me nose down." He 
further added that he "felt we were getting low and I told the instructor I wanted to increase power but 
the instructor told me to 'nose down.'" The student pilot reported that the instructor again stated multiple 
times to "nose down," but he "did not believe there was enough room to continue nose down." The 
student pilot reported that the flight instructor subsequently took the flight controls and nosed the 
airplane down and that the airplane impacted the runway threshold hard and veered off the runway.
The fuselage and firewall sustained substantial damage.
The flight instructor and student pilot reported that there were no preaccident mechanical malfunctions 
or failures with the airplane that would have precluded normal operation.
During postaccident correspondence with the National Transportation Safety Board investigator-in-
charge, the flight instructor reported that he could not recall if, during preflight, he and the student pilot 
discussed the positive transfer of the flight controls.
