Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Homer, Louisiana
Accident Number:
CEN17LA228
Date & Time:
June 9, 2017, 08:30 Local 
Registration:
N335JT
Aircraft:
Thompson Angel Hawk II
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot reported that, during the accident flight, he planned to take off and circle the 
experimental, amateur-built airplane above the runway to check engine operation. Just after takeoff, the 
engine began sputtering. He made a left 180° turn to return to the runway and during the turn, the engine 
experienced a total loss of power. He stated that the airplane stalled when he was in the turn and he did 
not have enough time to recover before impacting the ground. The airplane had accumulated about 47 
hours of run time and was in the initial flight test stage when the accident occurred.
The pilot reported that he had been having trouble with increased cylinder head temperatures on the 
converted automotive engine. The engine had experienced a total loss of power during a previous flight, 
but the pilot was able to land the airplane without incident. Following that event, he replaced some 
ignition system components and adjusted the valves. He was then able to start the engine and reported 
that it "ran fine" during subsequent test runs.
Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed that the fuel mixture was not adjustable in the cockpit. 
Examination of the engine revealed that there was melted plastic material inside the distributor rotor and 
the distributor drive shaft. The condition of the spark plugs was consistent with an overly lean fuel 
mixture and/or high temperature operation. It is likely that the melted distributor rotor was the result of 
the engine's high operating temperatures; the degradation of the distributor and its drive shaft would 
have resulted in a shift in ignition timing and a subsequent loss of engine power. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
