Page 1 of 12
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Payette, Idaho
Accident Number:
WPR17FA128
Date & Time:
June 17, 2017, 11:45 Local 
Registration:
N177TT
Aircraft:
PRESCOT E. WILKIE RV-3
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Aircraft structural failure
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot purchased the experimental, amateur-built airplane not fully assembled, and 
he subsequently completed the assembly. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) subsequently 
granted the airplane an airworthiness certificate in the experimental category. About 7 years later, the 
airplane was disassembled and shipped to the pilot's new home. The accident flight was the airplane's 
first flight after being reassembled.
A review of a video of the accident sequence showed that the left wing failed during a relatively benign 
maneuver as the airplane was descending. Several seconds earlier, the pilot had performed a high-speed, 
low-altitude pass over the runway with a sharp pullup. This maneuver would have produced much 
higher wing loads than those at the time of wing failure, and it is possible that the pull-up maneuver 
caused a localized buckling failure of the left-wing upper spar cap that further reduced its strength.
The accident airplane model has a history of in-flight wing separations. After a series of accidents, the 
kit manufacturer conducted extensive testing and provided owners/builders with suggested 
modifications for the airplane. The testing showed that the optional bonding of the spar caps together as 
a unit during assembly provided better resistance to buckling. The testing also showed that the initiating 
failure of the RV-3 wing was the buckling of the upper spar cap. The first modification to the RV-3 
wing (Change Notice [CN] -1 issued in 1984) involved reinforcing the rear spar attachment point and 
strengthening the wing root rib. The second modification to the RV-3 wing (CN-2-I or CN-2-II, issued 
in 1996) involved the addition of stiffening angles to the main spar, which it deemed necessary for 
aerobatic strength.
Examination of the accident airplane revealed that the wing spar and carry-through had been modified 
by the addition of 0.125-inch-thick doublers on both the rear spar and center section. However, the rear 
spar attachment point was still a single-shear configuration. The wing root rib on both wings was 0.020 
inch thick and had not been modified. This evidence indicates that the airplane had not been modified in 
