Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Rexberg, Idaho
Accident Number:
GAA17CA346
Date & Time:
June 12, 2017, 10:30 Local 
Registration:
N305CM
Aircraft:
Cessna 305C (0 1E)
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control on ground
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot in the tailwheel-equipped airplane reported that he attempted a crosswind landing to the 
asphalt surface of runway 35. He had about 300 hours of total tailwheel flight time, and he had 5 hours 
of flight time in the accident airplane. This was the pilot's first flight as the pilot-in-command. He 
recalled that the Automated Surface Observing System reported that the wind was from 050° at 5 knots, 
gusting to 21 knots. During the landing roll, the airplane encountered a wind gust from the right, and the 
tail lifted. The pilot lost directional control of the airplane, and the airplane faced southeast when 
another wind gust lifted the left wing, and the right wing struck the ground. The wind gust subsided, and 
the airplane came to rest upright. The airplane sustained substantial damage to the right wing, the right 
aileron, and the elevator.
Per the National Transportation Safety Board Pilot Aircraft Accident Report, the pilot reported that the 
accident could have been prevented if he had received more instruction from a Federal Aviation 
Administration certificated flight instructor in the accident airplane that was specific to crosswind 
landings. "But more important, I should have flown the airplane to an airport with a runway that was 
more in line with the wind."
The pilot reported that there were no preaccident mechanical malfunctions or failures with the airplane 
that would have precluded normal operation. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to maintain directional control during landing in gusting wind conditions.
