Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Ogden, Utah
Accident Number:
WPR17LA202
Date & Time:
September 12, 2017, 13:37 Local 
Registration:
N9798L
Aircraft:
Beech A24R
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Windshear or thunderstorm
Injuries:
2 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot reported that general maintenance had recently been completed on the 
airplane, and this was the pilot's first flight in the airplane and the first flight since the maintenance. The 
pilot completed two engine run-ups before taking off to practice touch-and-go landings. During the 
takeoff sequence, all instruments indicated normal. The airplane climbed to about 200 ft but then 
stopped climbing. The pilot reported that the engine did not sound obviously rough; however, the 
altitude was not increasing, and airspeed was decreasing. He enriched the mixture with no improvement. 
He turned on the fuel boost pump and received a little extra power for about half a second. He then 
tested the magnetos, which both indicated normal. He attempted to maintain altitude; however, his 
airspeed was steadily decreasing, so he chose to land on a nearby road, during which the airplane 
impacted a car and then the ground before it was consumed by fire. 
The weather observation just before the accident indicated the wind was variable at 3 knots, with the 
visibility at or greater than 10 miles and clear skies. The weather observation just after the accident 
indicated the wind was at 14 knots gusting to 19 knots, with visibility at or greater than 10 miles and 
clear skies. A gust front was moving northeastward toward the accident site about the time of the 
accident. The leading edge of the outflow or gust front moved past the accident site right around the 
time of the accident. Witnesses reported that shortly after takeoff, the engine sounded "weird" and was 
"sputtering" or "puttering." The postaccident airframe and engine examination revealed no evidence of 
mechanical malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation. Thus, it is likely that 
the erratic and strong wind conditions reduced the airplane's ability to maintain the initial takeoff climb. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
