Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Greeley, Colorado
Accident Number:
CEN17LA350
Date & Time:
September 12, 2017, 20:45 Local 
Registration:
N121CZ
Aircraft:
Embraer EMB 120ER
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Aircraft loading event
Injuries:
3 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 135: Air taxi & commuter - Non-scheduled
Analysis 
The airplane, which was operating as a nonscheduled domestic passenger flight, was standing on a ramp 
during dark night conditions waiting for the flight's passengers to arrive by bus; the flight crew was 
onboard the airplane. The only airport employee on duty opened the gate, told the bus driver to drop the 
passengers next to the airplane, and then returned to previous duties. The bus driver reported that there 
was no lighting on the ramp when he drove the bus onto it. He added that he made a right turn around 
the back of the airplane and "didn't see the wing." At that point, he was unable to stop the bus before it 
hit the wing. Although the bus driver reported that there was no light on the back of the wing, a video of 
the ramp area showed that the vertical portion of the T-tail was illuminated and that the airplane position 
lights were illuminated. 
The bus driver possessed current commercial passenger-carrying vehicle operational and medical 
certifications. The driver did not have vision problems. The driver stated that he was not using his cell 
phone at the time of the crash. A review of the driver's 72-hour activity history did not reveal any 
irregularities. The driver's postaccident toxicological testing results were negative for the tests 
performed. Given these facts, it is likely that the unescorted driver failed to maintain clearance from the 
airplane during the planeside delivery of passengers in dark night conditions. The lack of an airport 
employee to escort the bus to the side of the airplane likely contributed to the accident. After the 
accident, the operator stated that it would make a policy that drivers be guided to airplanes by a ground 
guide. If a ground guide was not available, the drivers would not be permitted to drop passengers 
planeside.
 
 
