Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Machias, Maine
Accident Number:
ERA17LA325
Date & Time:
September 14, 2017, 11:30 Local 
Registration:
N2120W
Aircraft:
Beech C23
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The private pilot descended the airplane to the destination airport but did not apply carburetor heat. 
While in the traffic pattern, as the airplane was turning onto a left base leg for the runway, the engine 
began to run roughly. The pilot then applied carburetor heat, but the engine lost total power. After 
realizing that the airplane was not going to glide to the runway threshold, the pilot performed a forced 
landing in a grassy area just short of the runway. During the landing, the nose gear collapsed and the 
airplane spun 180° before it came to rest, which resulted in substantial damage to the right wing.
Examination of the wreckage did not reveal any evidence of preimpact mechanical malfunctions or 
failures of the ignition system, fuel system, or engine that would have precluded normal operation. The 
weather conditions at the time of the accident were conducive to the formation of serious carburetor 
icing at glide power. Although the Descent checklist in the pilot operating handbook for the airplane 
make and model instructed the pilot to use carburetor heat as required, the pilot did not apply carburetor 
heat before initiating the descent; rather, he waited until the engine began to run roughly. It is likely that 
the engine initially lost partial power after developing carburetor ice and that the pilot's delayed 
application of carburetor heat was ineffective at melting any accumulated ice.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's delay in applying carburetor heat, which resulted in a total loss of engine power due to 
carburetor icing.
