Page 1 of 12
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
North Branford, Connecticut
Accident Number:
ERA17FA327
Date & Time:
September 16, 2017, 13:00 Local 
Registration:
N53CP
Aircraft:
Mooney M20C
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot, who was the owner of the airplane, and one passenger departed on a day 
visual flight rules cross-country flight. The airplane came to rest in a wooded area near an open field 
about 24 miles from the departure airport. The pilot was not in contact with air traffic control during the 
flight. Review of radar information revealed radar targets that were coincident with the accident flight 
on a south-southeast track at altitudes between 900 and 1,300 ft above ground level until radar contact 
was lost about 1 mile northwest of the accident site. Several individuals near the accident site reported 
that they heard the sound of the impact, but there were no witnesses to the accident. The propeller 
exhibited signatures consistent with a lack of engine power at the time of impact. The fuel selector was 
found in the left tank position and the landing gear was extended. There was evidence of fuel in both 
tanks at the accident site.
Examination of the fuel system revealed that air would not pass through the fuel selector valve with the 
valve selected to the left fuel tank position. The handle was operated by hand and could be moved 
normally between the settings. Air passed freely through the valve when selected to the right tank 
position. Disassembly of the fuel selector revealed a piece of red, fibrous material consistent with a shop 
towel that likely inhibited fuel flow to the engine and resulted in fuel starvation and a total loss of engine 
power. The airplane's maintenance logs were not found and when the shop towel debris may have been 
introduced to the fuel system could not be determined. Additionally, a homemade tool constructed of 
PVC pipe and connection fittings was found in the wreckage that appeared to be designed to manipulate 
the fuel selector; however, the reason for its fabrication and use during the accident flight could not be 
determined. The device was broken at its handle.
Following the loss of engine power, the pilot may have attempted to switch the fuel selector from the 
left tank to the right tank and was unable to do so, either due to a failure of his homemade tool or to the 
inadequate time afforded to troubleshoot the loss of engine power due to his selection of a low cruising 
altitude, or a combination of the two factors. The airplane's low cruising altitude also reduced the pilot's 
available forced landing site options after the engine lost power. It is likely that the pilot was attempting 
to reach an open field that was about 1,500 ft beyond the accident site and had lowered the landing gear 
