Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Worland, Wyoming
Accident Number:
CEN17LA356
Date & Time:
September 12, 2017, 16:30 Local 
Registration:
N1835R
Aircraft:
Cessna R182
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel exhaustion
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Aerial observation
Analysis 
The commercial pilot reported that, about halfway through the planned pipeline surveillance flight, the 
engine experienced a total loss of power and he performed a forced landing to a dirt road. A 
postaccident examination revealed that both fuel tanks appeared to be empty; the left wing fuel tank cap 
seal appeared to be worn, and the left wing exhibited fuel staining aft of the fuel cap, consistent with 
fuel siphoning from the tank in flight.
The airplane was fueled the preceding night, and the pilot had assumed the fuel tanks were full upon 
departing on the first flight of the day. The airplane was flown 2.7 hours on the morning of the accident 
before it was refueled. The pilot did not recall visually confirming the fuel level following that refueling. 
An additional 4.1 hours of flight time elapsed from the time the airplane was refueled until the accident. 
According to the pilot, the airplane's fuel gauges were unreliable. To compensate, he had adopted the 
practice of completely filling the fuel tanks during each refueling, tracking the intervening flight time, 
and calculating fuel burn based on the airplane's average fuel consumption rate. Two days before the 
accident, an individual refueling the airplane informed him that the left fuel cap seal was torn. A new 
fuel cap seal had not yet been installed.
Although the amount of fuel lost through the cap could not be quantified, the unreliable fuel gauges did 
not allow the pilot to monitor either the normal fuel consumption nor alert him to the potentially 
abnormal rate of consumption due to the siphoning fuel. In addition, the pilot failed to verify the amount 
of fuel onboard before departure, which further rendered his method of tracking fuel consumption 
inaccurate. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
