Page 1 of 13
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Glenwood Springs, Colorado
Accident Number:
CEN17FA354
Date & Time:
September 15, 2017, 20:10 Local 
Registration:
N462SR
Aircraft:
CIRRUS DESIGN CORP SR22
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
4 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The non-instrument-rated private pilot and three passengers departed on a night cross-county flight over 
mountainous terrain. Radar track data showed that the airplane traveled mainly on a southwesterly 
heading directly towards its destination with a series of altitude changes. About 5 minutes before the 
accident, the airplane turned to the northwest, a deviation off the destination course, and continued 
northwest for about 12 miles. After the turn, a passenger sent a text message to a family member stating 
that they were "taking the long way around, lots of weather, keep you posted." Shortly thereafter, the 
airplane entered a gradual left turn to the southwest, descending from 11,500 ft to 11,300 ft, then 
climbing back to 11,400 ft. The last recorded radar return was about 1/4 mile south of the accident site, 
which was located at an elevation of 10,800 ft. Postaccident examination of the airframe and engine 
showed severe fragmentation of the airplane consistent with a high-energy impact and did not reveal any 
preimpact anomalies that would have precluded normal operation. 
The flight was likely operating in instrument meteorological conditions (IMC) at the time of the 
accident, including light to moderate icing conditions. The airplane likely encountered intermittent IMC 
beginning about 30 minutes after takeoff, and continued into an area of solid IMC about 3 minutes 
before the accident occurred. 
There was no record of the pilot retrieving preflight weather information from an official, access-
controlled source, and what weather information, if any, he obtained before or during the flight could 
not be determined. Based on the weather forecasts and information valid before the airplane departed 
and while en route, and the equipment available onboard the airplane, there was sufficient weather 
information available to the pilot before and during the flight to make informed decisions regarding the 
weather he would likely encounter.
The night instrument conditions present at the time of the accident were conducive to the development 
of spatial disorientation and the circumstances of the accident. The non-instrument-rated pilot's 
continued flight into IMC, the airplane's descending turn depicted on radar, and the fragmentation of the 
