Page 1 of 12
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Reno, Nevada
Accident Number:
WPR17LA209
Date & Time:
September 17, 2017, 08:20 Local 
Registration:
C-GTPX
Aircraft:
Trudel GP 4
Aircraft Damage:
Minor
Defining Event:
Midair collision
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Air race/show
Analysis 
During the initial start of an air race, nine airplanes were positioned in a line-abreast formation. The RV-
8 was positioned in the No. 7 slot, and the GP 4 was right of the RV-8 in the No. 8 slot. The RV-8 pilot 
reported that, during the race start, he felt an air current push down his airplane. He then moved forward 
of the No. 6 slot airplane and initiated corrections to reestablish his position within the formation. The 
GP 4 pilot reported that he saw the RV-8 descend below his airplane's left wing and that he reduced 
power while initiating a slight right bank in an attempt to "back out" of the formation. The pilot who was 
in the No. 9 slot reported that he observed the GP-4 move forward back into the formation very quickly. 
At that time, he noticed the pilot of the GP-4 trying to slow or correct his position to the right using 
ailerons. Shortly after, the propeller of the GP-4 struck the right aileron of the RV-8. Following the 
collision, the RV-8 entered an uncommanded left roll; however, the pilot was able to level the airplane 
and land uneventfully. The GP-4 pilot pitched his airplane upward and rolled right to avoid the 
surrounding airplanes and was also able to land the airplane uneventfully.
It is likely that, if the pilot of the GP-4 had maintained adequate lateral distance from the RV-8 while 
advancing forward to maintain a line-abreast formation, he would have been able to maintain clearance 
from the RV-8 as it descended and would not have needed to bank right, which further reduced the GP-4 
pilot's visual contact with the RV-8 and led to the midair collision.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to maintain clearance from another airplane during the line-abreast formation.
