Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
McAlester, Oklahoma
Accident Number:
CEN17LA357
Date & Time:
September 15, 2017, 16:20 Local 
Registration:
N18403
Aircraft:
Beech A36
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot stated that the flight originated with full fuel tanks. About 8 minutes after takeoff, he 
noticed fuel leaking from the left fuel tank cap for a short period. The pilot continued the flight, 
switching fuel tanks every 25 minutes. The flight continued uneventfully until the engine lost total 
power while the airplane was entering the downwind leg to land. The pilot switched fuel tanks and 
attempted to restart the engine to no avail. The pilot performed a forced landing in a field; the airplane 
touched down hard and contacted a hay bale, which resulted in substantial damage to the wings and 
compromised the fuel system. Postaccident examination of the main fuel tank caps revealed the O-rings 
were cracked. Maintenance records showed that the O-rings were replaced about 17 months before the 
accident. Although it is unknown how much fuel leaked from the fuel cap during the flight, the pilot 
reported that, about 50 minutes before the accident, both fuel tanks were indicating about 3/4 full; thus, 
it is doubtful that enough fuel would have leaked to result in fuel exhaustion. A postaccident engine test 
run was conducted with the fuselage strapped down on a trailer; an alternate fuel system was rigged to 
both the left and right fuel inlet lines at the fuselage. The engine started without hesitation and ran 
smoothly up to 1,500 rpm using the left fuel tank inlet. The test was repeated using the right fuel tank 
inlet, and the engine performed in the same manner. The rpm was not increased any higher due to the 
security of the fuselage during the test. Postaccident examination of the engine did not reveal evidence 
of preimpact malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation; thus, the reason for 
the loss of engine power could not be determined.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
