Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Nantucket, Massachusetts
Accident Number:
ERA17LA329
Date & Time:
September 13, 2017, 07:23 Local 
Registration:
N836GW
Aircraft:
Cessna 402
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Flight control sys malf/fail
Injuries:
1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The commercial pilot stated that, shortly after taking off for a cross-country, personal flight and while 
accelerating, he noticed high airplane nose-down control forces and that the airplane became 
increasingly difficult to control. He used manual trim to attempt to trim out the control forces and 
verified that the autopilot was not engaged; however, the nose-down tendency continued, and the pilot 
had trouble maintaining altitude. During the subsequent emergency landing, the airframe sustained 
substantial damage.
 
Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed that the elevator trim push rod assembly was 
separated from the elevator trim tab actuator, and the end of the elevator trim push rod assembly was 
found wedged against the elevator's main spar. The elevator trim indicator in the cockpit was found in 
the nose-up stop position; however, the elevator trim tab was deflected 24° trailing edge up/airplane 
nose down (the maximum airplane nose-down setting is 6°). A drilled bolt was recovered from inside 
the right elevator; however, the associated washer, castellated nut, and cotter pin were not found. 
Examination of the bolt revealed that the threads were damaged and that the bolt hole on one of the 
clevis yoke halves exhibited deformation, consistent with the bolt separating. About 2 weeks before the 
accident, the pilot flew the airplane to a maintenance facility for an annual inspection. At that time, 
Airworthiness Directive (AD) 2016-07-24, which required installation of new hardware at both ends of 
the pushrod for the elevator trim tab, was overdue. While the airplane was in for the annual inspection, 
AD 2016-07-24 was superseded by AD 2016-17-08, which also required the installation of new 
hardware. The ADs were issued to prevent jamming of the elevator trim tab in a position outside the 
normal limits of travel due to the loss of the attachment hardware connecting the elevator trim tab 
actuator to the elevator trim tab push-pull rod, which could result in loss of airplane control.
 
