Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Rhine, Georgia
Accident Number:
ERA17FA330
Date & Time:
September 20, 2017, 06:01 Local 
Registration:
N3875J
Aircraft:
Cessna 150G
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The student pilot departed in dark night, marginal visual flight rules (MVFR) conditions from his private 
grass runway that was partially lit with solar lights. A witness heard the airplane depart followed by the 
sound of a crash, and when he arrived at the airstrip, he observed a light layer of fog over the runway. 
The airplane came to rest in heavily-wooded terrain adjacent to the runway. Examination of the airplane 
and engine revealed no anomalies that would have precluded normal operation before impact.
Data downloaded from an onboard GPS unit revealed that, after departure, the airplane made a climbing 
right turn to an altitude of 407 ft. It then descended to 256 ft and reached a maximum airspeed of 95 
knots (kts) while continuing the right turn. The airplane then climbed in a right, 30° bank to a maximum 
altitude of 666 ft while slowing to an airspeed of 32 kts, which was well below the minimum stall speed. 
The airplane then rolled to the right and entered a rapid descent before the data ended.
Conditions conducive to the development of spatial disorientation were present, including the dark 
night, MVFR conditions and a noninstrument-rated student pilot. Additionally, the airplane's track data, 
which reflects spiral-like maneuvering, and a wreckage distribution consistent with a loss-of-control, 
stall-type vertical descent, are consistent with the known effects of spatial disorientation. Based on this 
evidence, the student pilot most likely experienced spatial disorientation after takeoff, which led to the 
airplane exceeding its critical angle of attack and an aerodynamic stall. 
 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
