Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Charlotte, North Carolina
Accident Number:
DCA17CA197
Date & Time:
September 13, 2017, 15:45 Local 
Registration:
N261PS
Aircraft:
BOMBARDIER INC CL 600 2B19
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Ground collision
Injuries:
1 Serious, 34 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 121: Air carrier - Scheduled
Analysis 
On September 13, 2017, at 3:45 pm eastern daylight time, PSA Airlines flight 5233, a Bombardier CRJ-
200, N261PS, collided with a TLD Jet-16 baggage tug operated by Piedmont Airlines while taxiing at 
Charlotte-Douglas International Airport (KCLT), Charlotte, North Carolina.  The airplane received 
substantial damage to the left wing and the tug canopy section was damaged.  The tug driver was 
seriously injured and there were no injuries to the 34 passengers and crew onboard the CRJ-200.  
Weather was daytime visual meteorological conditions.
After landing on runway 18R, the airplane was instructed to taxi to Gate E4.  While taxiing in a narrow 
alleyway near the north end of concourse E, between the concourse and the baggage transfer point, the 
ground tug impacted the left wingtip.
The tug was driving on non-movement area of the terminal ramp. The baggage tug was slightly in front 
of the aircraft at about a 10 o'clock position to the captain of the aircraft. A terminal road crosses the taxi 
alleyway from near Gate E38 to the beginning of area designated as the baggage transfer point. The 
transfer point is located outside the alleyway and is lined with concrete barriers. Airplane taxi within the 
alleyway and ground equipment travel perpendicular to aircraft movement when accessing the transfer 
point. As the tug turned onto the service road and began to cross the roadway he noticed the airplane 
taxing in the alley. The driver indicated that, in order to avoid a collision, he tightened his right turn in 
the opposite direction the airplane was traveling before colliding with the left hand wing. The canopy of 
the baggage tug was sheared off and the leading edge and winglet of the airplane was substantially 
damaged. The final resting place of the tug was just behind the trailing edge of the wing. There were 
skid marks from the airplane tires consistent with maximum braking starting when the airplane made 
contact with the baggage tug. According to airline ground movement procedures, an airplane on the non-
movement area always has the right of way.
