Page 1 of 12
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Glendale, California
Accident Number:
WPR17LA212
Date & Time:
September 22, 2017, 21:57 Local 
Registration:
N34BE
Aircraft:
Mooney M20E
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel exhaustion
Injuries:
2 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot and passenger had planned a round trip personal flight in the pilot's single-engine 
airplane. According to the pilot, he had wanted to service the airplane with fuel before the return leg, but 
he did not do so due to the passenger's desire to arrive home before a certain time. During the initial 
descent of the return leg, the engine lost total power. The pilot conducted a series of troubleshooting 
steps to no avail and then conducted a forced landing onto a residential street and struck trees. 
Postaccident wreckage examination revealed that both fuel tanks were empty, and although the right fuel 
tank sustained a small breach during impact, there was no fuel odor at the accident site. A series of 
brown streaks were observed trailing from an area adjacent to the right-wing fuel sump drain. The sump 
valve sealant was badly degraded, and it is possible that a small fuel leak had developed at an 
undetermined time; however, blue streaking would have been more likely if a significant and recent fuel 
loss had occurred. Further examination revealed no leaks in the fuel supply system or engine. The 
engine tachometer was tested for accuracy, and no anomalies were noted. During an engine test run, the 
engine started normally and operated through its full speed range with no evidence of a mechanical 
anomaly.
The pilot had purchased the airplane 5 months before the accident and had been tracking fuel 
consumption since his purchase. He determined a representative fuel burn rate based on fuel purchases 
and engine tachometer hour-meter readings. The pilot reported that he did this because the fuel gauges 
were unreliable, and he did not possess a calibrated dipstick to measure the actual fuel quantities. Using 
his calculated fuel burn and tachometer reading method, the pilot estimated that he had enough fuel 
remaining to complete the flight and land with the Federal Aviation Administration-required 45-minute 
fuel reserve. However, he had performed multiple flights since the last fill up, which included one go-
around and a full runway-length taxi earlier in the day. The total time for those flights was near the 
airplane's fuel endurance limit when measured by tachometer time, but the fuel consumption was likely 
higher due to the increased consumption demanded by the engine during the multiple takeoffs. It is 
likely that the pilot miscalculated the amount of fuel on board before the flight, which resulted in fuel 
