Page 1 of 14
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Perkinsville, Arizona
Accident Number:
WPR17FA213
Date & Time:
September 22, 2017, 16:35 Local 
Registration:
N7070Q
Aircraft:
Cessna 172L
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Turbulence encounter
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot had received his private pilot certificate about 7 months before the accident. He had told 
family members that he was planning to fly with his friend, the passenger, and stay in the airport traffic 
pattern performing touch-and-go takeoffs and landings.
Contrary to the pilot's stated plan, radar data indicated that the airplane departed toward a meandering 
river canyon immediately after takeoff. The radar data ended just before the airplane entered the canyon, 
likely due to terrain masking along the route of flight as a result of the airplane descending below the 
canyon walls.
The wreckage was located about 2 miles beyond the entrance to the canyon, at a tight turn of the river. 
The wreckage was on the steep face of a boulder-strewn cut bank about 500 ft above the river and 200 ft 
below the canyon rim. Wreckage debris indicated that the airplane impacted the ground in a near-
vertical attitude with low-energy impact signatures, consistent with a low-speed collision and likely the 
early stages of a spin. The majority of the primary airframe structure was consumed by fire, but 
postaccident examination did not reveal any anomalies with the remaining airframe or engine 
components that would have precluded normal operation.
Performance calculations indicated that, while it was theoretically possible to negotiate the canyon bend 
in the airplane, the pilot would have needed to fly with precision and factor for tailwinds along with 
turbulence and downdrafts that were likely present in the canyon at that time and would have made 
escape from the canyon difficult.
The pilot had flown through the canyon with his instructor once before in another, slower, airplane but 
in the opposite direction of flight than that he took on the day of the accident. The wreckage was located 
in an area the instructor had specifically warned the pilot about due to the tight radius of the river bend 
and the close canyon walls, and during that flight they had bypassed the area. It is possible that the pilot 
did not recognize the turn during the accident flight because he was approaching from the opposite 
direction.
