Page 1 of 11
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Ainsworth, Nebraska
Accident Number:
CEN17FA362
Date & Time:
September 23, 2017, 10:28 Local 
Registration:
N73MA
Aircraft:
Mitsubishi MU 2B-40
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The instrument-rated private pilot departed on a cross-country flight in instrument meteorological 
conditions (IMC) with an overcast cloud layer at 500 ft above ground level (agl) and visibility restricted 
to 1 ¾ miles in mist, without receiving an instrument clearance or opening his filed instrument flight 
rules flight plan. There was an outage of the ground communications system at the airport and there was 
no evidence that the pilot attempted to open his flight plan via his cellular telephone. In addition, there 
was a low-level outage of the radar services in the vicinity of the accident site and investigators were 
unable to determine the airplane's route of flight before impact. 
The airport manager observed the accident airplane depart from runway 35 and enter the clouds. 
Witnesses located to the north of the accident site did not see the airplane but reported hearing an 
airplane depart about the time of the accident. One witness reported hearing a low-flying airplane and 
commented that the engines sounded as if they were operating at full power. The witness heard a thud as 
he was walking into his home but attributed it to a thunderstorm in the area. 
The airplane impacted a field about 3.5 miles to the northeast of the departure end of the runway and off 
the track for the intended route of flight. The airplane was massively fragmented during the impact and 
debris was scattered for about 300 ft. The damage to the airplane and ground scars at the accident site 
were consistent with the airplane impacting in a left wing low, nose low attitude with relatively high 
energy.
A postaccident examination of the engines and propeller assemblies did not reveal any preimpact 
anomalies that would have precluded normal operation. Signatures were consistent with both engines 
producing power and both propellers developing thrust at the time of impact. While the massive 
fragmentation precluded functional testing of the equipment, there was no damage or failure that 
suggested preimpact anomalies with the airframe or flight controls.
Several days before the accident flight, the pilot encountered a "transient flag" on the air data attitude 
heading reference system. The pilot reported the flag to both the co-owner of the airplane and an 
