Page 1 of 11
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Thief River Falls, Minnesota
Accident Number:
CEN17FA361
Date & Time:
September 23, 2017, 07:42 Local 
Registration:
N4777T
Aircraft:
Cessna TR182
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
3 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The noninstrument-rated private pilot and 2 passengers departed in instrument meteorological conditions 
(IMC) with an overcast cloud layer at 400 ft above ground level (agl). Data obtained from an onboard 
GPS unit showed the airplane depart toward the destination airport and climb and descend several times. 
About 2 minutes after takeoff, the airplane descended to 250 ft above ground level (agl), then turned and 
quickly climbed to 1,400 ft agl. The final GPS points showed the airplane in a descending right turn. A 
witness reported hearing the airplane overhead and stated that the engine was "screaming" before 
impact. The airplane impacted a field about 4 minutes after takeoff resulting in a debris path about 230 
yards long, consistent with a relatively high forward airspeed at the time of impact.
A postaccident examination of the airframe and engine did not reveal any preimpact anomalies that 
would have precluded normal operation. The primary vacuum pump was not found in the wreckage; 
however, an examination of the standby vacuum pump revealed that the rotor was fractured by impact, 
but the vanes were intact. The heading indicator and turn coordinator gyros exhibited rotational scoring 
consistent with rotation at the time of impact. The damage to the propeller blades was consistent with 
the engine producing power at impact. 
The autopsy report revealed no significant coronary artery disease; however, microscopic examination 
revealed focal areas of fine fibrosis suggestive of prior ischemic episodes. This finding was not 
significant enough to suggest an incapacitating event. No other significant natural disease was present 
that could pose a hazard to flight safety.
Review of the pilot's logbook and his statements to individuals who spoke with him before the accident 
suggested that he had a history of flying in and around IMC. Given the weather conditions at the time of 
departure and observations of the pilot checking the weather conditions before the flight, the pilot was 
aware that he would be required to fly in or under IMC during the flight and chose to do so despite not 
holding an instrument rating. Based on the reported weather conditions and GPS data, it is likely that, 
