Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Deport, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN18LA113
Date & Time:
March 2, 2018, 16:25 Local 
Registration:
N3733X
Aircraft:
Aero Commander 100-180
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel contamination
Injuries:
1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
 
The private pilot reported that the airplane had been parked outside and exposed to an extended period 
of rainfall in the days leading to the accident. On the day before the accident, the pilot drained nearly 2 
gallons of water from the fuel system before he saw clean, blue fuel. He subsequently repositioned the 
airplane on the ramp to see if he could get more water out of the tanks and installed new gaskets for the 
fuel caps. On the day of the accident, the pilot sumped the fuel system and found a small amount of 
water during the first check but reported that it was clear on the second check. During the pre-takeoff 
engine run-up, the airplane operated normally, and the pilot chose to depart.
About 25 minutes after takeoff, the pilot executed a steep turn about 500 ft above ground level. About 1 
minute after leveling off, the engine sputtered once and experienced a total loss of power. His attempt to 
restart the engine was unsuccessful. The pilot performed a forced landing to a field but was unable to 
stop the airplane before hitting trees during the landing roll. He reported that there were no mechanical 
malfunctions or failures with the airplane that would have precluded normal operation before the loss of 
engine power. Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed that the right wing was separated from 
the airframe and contained no fuel. The left wing was about 1/2 full, but the fuel was not sampled. The 
fuel filler neck and cap showed large amounts of rust, indicative of inadequate maintenance of the fuel 
caps, which would have allowed water to enter the neck and tanks. It is likely that precipitation entered 
the fuel system around the poorly-maintained fuel filler and cap, which resulted in water contamination 
of the fuel, and that there was water remaining in the system even after the pilot drained large amounts 
of water before the flight, which resulted in the subsequent loss of engine power.   
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
