Page 1 of 11
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Laredo, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN18FA116
Date & Time:
March 8, 2018, 10:38 Local 
Registration:
N82605
Aircraft:
Piper PA 31P
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The commercial pilot and passenger, who held a student certificate, departed runway 18R for a local 
flight in a multi-engine airplane. The pilot held a flight instructor certificate for single-engine airplane. 
Just after takeoff, the tower controller reported to the pilot that smoke was coming from the left side of 
the airplane.  The pilot acknowledged, stating that they were going to "fix it," and then entered a left 
downwind for runway 18R, adding that they didn't need any assistance. The controller subsequently 
cleared the airplane to land on runway 18L, which the pilot acknowledged. Two witnesses reported 
seeing the smoke come from the left engine. Still images taken from airport security video show the 
airplane before making the turn to land with white smoke trailing and the landing gear down. The 
airplane was then seen in a steep left turn to final approach exceeding 90° of bank, before it impacted 
terrain, just short of the runway in a near vertical attitude. A postcrash fire ensued.
The examination of the wreckage found that the left engine's propeller was not being driven by the 
engine at the time of impact. The left propeller was not in the feathered position and the landing gear 
was found extended. The damage to the right engine propeller blades was consistent with the engine 
operating at high power at impact. The examination of the airframe and engines revealed no evidence of 
preimpact anomalies; however, the examinations were limited by impact and fire damage which 
precluded examination of the hoses and lines associated with the engines. The white smoke observed 
from the left side of the airplane was likely the result of an oil leak which allowed oil to reach the hot 
exterior surfaces of the engine; however, this could not be verified due to damage to the engine. There 
was no evidence of oil starvation for either engine. 
Both the extended landing gear and non-feathered left propeller would have increased the drag on the 
airplane. Because the pilot's operating procedures for an engine failure in a climb call for feathering the 
affected engine and raising the landing gear until certain of making the field, it is unlikely the pilot 
followed the applicable checklists in response to the situation. Further, the change from landing on 
runway 18R to 18L also reduced the radius of the turn and increased the required angle of bank. The 
increased left banked turn, the right engine operating at a high-power setting, and the airplane's 
