Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Addison, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN18LA119
Date & Time:
March 10, 2018, 16:46 Local 
Registration:
N422PS
Aircraft:
CZECH SPORT AIRCRAFT AS PIPER 
SPORT
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel related
Injuries:
2 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
According the operator, before the flight, the airplane was serviced with winter-grade 93-octane 
automotive gas. The flight instructor and one passenger were conducting a local introductory 
instructional flight; the outside ambient temperature was 81°F. The airplane's recorded data showed that 
the engine was running for about 18 minutes during engine start-up, taxi, engine run-up, and while 
holding short of the runway. During the engine run-up, the fuel flow was about 6 gallons per hour (gph), 
and the fuel pressure was between about 6 and 7 pounds per square inch (psi) at an engine speed of 
4,000 rpm. 
Shortly after departure, the pilot stated to an air traffic controller that "we're having vapor lock, we need 
to come back and land." During the initial climb, the fuel flow increased to a peak of 9 gph, and the fuel 
pressure decreased to 3.3 psi at 5,025 rpm. The airplane made a climbing left turn to the southeast, 
continued circling left as the engine surged, and then descended toward the end of the departure runway 
before the flight track data ended. An airport surveillance video showed that, the airplane subsequently 
continued descending in a wings-level attitude near the end of the runway before it entered a sharp left 
bank and then impacted the ground. 
Examination of the airplane revealed no evidence of any preexisting mechanical malfunctions or failures 
that would have precluded normal operation. Although the engine manufacturer recommended the use of 
mogas; however its Engine Operating Manual (EOM) warned to only use “fuel suitable for the 
respective climatic zone” and that there was a “risk of vapor formation if using winter [grade] fuel for 
summer operation.” 
The EOM stated that the fuel flow at takeoff is 7.1 gph. When an engine experiences vapor lock, air 
enters the fuel flow sensor and causes the unit to spin at a higher rate than if only fuel was passing 
through, and it is often represented as spikes in fuel flow. Therefore, the fuel flow reaching 9 gph during 
the initial climb was consistent with vapor lock. It is likely that, due to the use of a winter-grade fuel and 
