Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
La Center, Washington
Accident Number:
WPR18FA104
Date & Time:
March 11, 2018, 12:57 Local 
Registration:
N4511Y
Aircraft:
Piper PA 18-150
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Controlled flight into terr/obj (CFIT)
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot departed on a personal flight in day visual meteorological conditions to conduct touch-
and-go takeoffs and landings at a nearby airport. Onboard data indicated that the pilot flew a left traffic 
pattern at the destination, then overflew the runway. A witness near the accident site saw the airplane 
climbing about 150 ft above the runway. The airplane turned left and remained in the traffic pattern; the 
witness stated that the airplane appeared to level off about 250 ft then disappeared from his view. 
Moments later, he heard a series of three loud bangs, followed by a full-power engine sound, another 
loud bang, and "an abrupt stoppage of all sounds." Review of recorder data revealed that right before the 
impact, the airplane's speed was 11 knots groundspeed, with the pitch angle of 8° and the left bank angle 
of 105° at the GPS altitude of 130 ft.  Survey of the accident site indicated that the airplane impacted a 
140-ft tall tree while in a left turn and came to rest on the ground about 150 ft south-east from the initial 
tree strike. Therefore, it is likely that the pilot did not maintain a sufficient altitude necessary to avoid 
collision with the trees.
Postaccident examination of the airframe and engine revealed no evidence of any preexisting 
mechanical malfunctions that would have precluded normal operation, and autopsy and toxicology of 
the pilot did not reveal any evidence of physiological impairment or incapacitation. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to maintain clearance from trees while maneuvering at a low altitude.
