Page 1 of 18
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Palatka, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA18LA109
Date & Time:
March 16, 2018, 10:38 Local 
Registration:
N486DA
Aircraft:
CIRRUS DESIGN CORP SR20
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Midair collision
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
A Cirrus SR22 flown by a private pilot and a Cirrus SR20 flown by a pilot undergoing instruction and a 
flight instructor were performing touch-and-go landings at the airport. The pilot of the SR22 and the 
flight instructor of the SR20 reportedly announced their positions on the airport’s common traffic 
advisory frequency (CTAF) as they flew around the airport traffic pattern. The SR22 pilot and the SR20 
flight instructor both reported that they heard another pilot announce they were on a 6-mile final for the 
runway. The SR22 pilot turned onto the base leg and then onto final. The SR20 flight instructor stated 
that, because an airplane they had in sight was on short final approach, he chose to have the pilot 
undergoing instruction extend the downwind leg. When they were abeam the airplane that was on final, 
they turned onto base leg and then onto final. When the SR20 pilot undergoing instruction was just 
about to flare, the flight instructor heard “an explosion.” When the SR22 was over the runway about 
ready to begin to flare, the pilot heard a "bang" and the nose came up; the two airplanes had collided. 
None of the pilots in either airplane reported seeing the other airplane before the collision. Both 
airplanes sustained substantial damage. 
 
The pilot of the SR22 indicated that he could not understand some calls from the SR20, and the flight 
instructor of the SR20 indicated that he did not hear some radio calls from the SR22. Postaccident 
examinations of the radios and audio panels installed in the SR22 revealed no evidence of preimpact 
failures or malfunctions that would have precluded normal operation. At least one of the radios was 
tuned to the airport CTAF, and the audio select panel was configured to use that radio to transmit and 
receive audio. Functional testing revealed that both of the SR22’s radios and the audio panel performed 
with no anomalies noted. Postaccident testing of the radios and audio select panel in the SR20 revealed 
no evidence of preimpact failures or malfunctions that would have precluded normal operation, although 
damage sustained during the accident prevented a successful functional test of the comm 1 radio 
