Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Pierce, Nebraska
Accident Number:
CEN18FA126
Date & Time:
March 21, 2018, 18:45 Local 
Registration:
N741WT
Aircraft:
RANS INC S-16 SHEKARI
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot was approaching his private airstrip in his experimental amateur-built airplane when 
witnesses heard the sound of the engine stop. The airplane then impacted a field about ¼ mile from the 
approach end of the runway. The runway's usable length was limited due to standing water and mud; 
thus, the approach for landing would have necessitated a low-speed, low-altitude approach with low 
engine power to minimize airplane energy. The wreckage path and airplane damage were consistent 
with a low-speed, nose-low impact. 
The accident occurred about 1 hour after the pilot fueled the airplane with 16.5 gallons of 100 low-lead 
(LL) fuel. Postaccident examination of the fuel tank found that it contained useable fuel. No indication 
of water was found in the fuel.
Recorded data from the airplane' s electronic flight instrument system showed that the airplane's speed 
decreased below stall speed and engine operation continued until the airplane impacted terrain. The 
airplane was not equipped with a stall warning system, and there were no markings on airspeed 
instruments indicating the stall speed. Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed no mechanical 
anomalies that would have precluded normal operation.
The National Transportation Safety Board was unable to determine, from the available evidence, the 
number of hours that the pilot flew in the accident airplane make and model, which he had purchased 6 
months before the accident.    
Although the pilot's severe heart disease placed him at increased risk for an acute cardiac event, whether 
or not symptoms from such an event contributed to this accident could not be determined. Thus, the 
reason for the pilot's failure to maintain airspeed could not be determined.
