Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Arctic Ocean, Other Foreign
Accident Number:
ANC18LA027
Date & Time:
March 21, 2018,   
Registration:
N716JP
Aircraft:
DEHAVILLAND DHC 6 TWIN OTTER
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Collision during takeoff/land
Injuries:
1 Serious, 5 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 135: Air taxi & commuter - Non-scheduled
Analysis 
The captain and first officer were conducting a flight to provide ongoing logistical support to a remote 
research camp located on frozen water. The captain reported that departing and arriving flights used an 
airstrip built on the ice that was lined with snow berms on both sides. He added that, just before the 
takeoff roll, he and the first officer saw a pedestrian standing near the left side of the departure end of 
the airstrip. As the takeoff roll continued, the airplane became airborne, so the captain lowered the nose 
to remain within ground effect and gain airspeed before initiating a climb. The captain added that, as the 
airspeed increased, he started to climb the airplane and then initiated a left turn. Both pilots reported 
that, during the turn, they heard a loud thump, which was immediately followed by an aileron control 
anomaly. The captain initiated a left turn back toward the airstrip and subsequently made an emergency 
landing. After landing, both pilots saw the pedestrian lying near a snow berm on the left side of the 
airstrip. The captain reported that he did not remember if it had been prearranged to have the pedestrian 
stand near the departure end of the airstrip during the departure. 
The pedestrian reported that, just before the two pilots boarded the airplane, he told the captain that he 
would position himself alongside the airstrip so that he could photograph the airplane at departure. As 
the airplane back-taxied before takeoff, the pedestrian positioned himself clear of the airstrip and behind 
a 3- to 4-ft-tall snow berm. He said that, as the airplane's takeoff progressed, it did not climb as quickly 
as it had during previous departures and that the last thing he remembered before the collision was 
seeing the left wing getting lower to the ground as the airplane began a left turn and flew toward him 
while continuing to accelerate. 
A security video camera recorded the accident sequence, and the recording supported the pedestrian's 
account of the sequence of events. Although the captain reported that he climbed the airplane before 
initiating a left turn, the review of the video revealed that the flight crew operated the airplane at a low 
altitude and along a flightpath that placed it in dangerous proximity to the pedestrian (which was 
inconsistent with federal regulations) and left no margin to avoid the collision with him.
