Page 1 of 11
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Kingsville, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN18FA147
Date & Time:
April 25, 2018, 12:25 Local 
Registration:
N12377
Aircraft:
North American SNJ 5
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot, who was the owner of the vintage military trainer airplane, and a pilot-rated passenger 
were conducting a right turn just after takeoff, while still over the runway surface. Witnesses reported 
that the airplane's bank angle exceeded 90° and the highest altitude achieved was 200-300 ft. above 
ground level. The airplane then descended nose low and impacted a the ground less than 1 minute after 
takeoff. Radar data indicated that the airplane's average airspeed during the final portion of the flight 
was 87 mph and the bank angle reached about 56°, which would have resulted in a load factor of about 
1.8g. Airplane performance data indicated that the accelerated stall speed at this load factor was about 
95 mph, thus it is likely that, during the turn, the airplane exceeded its critical angle of attack and 
entered an accelerated stall at an altitude too low for the pilot to recover. Postaccident examination of 
the airplane did not reveal any anomalies that could be attributed to a preimpact mechanical deficiency.
The airplane was equipped with tandem seating and dual flight controls; the owner was seated in the 
front seat and the passenger was seated in the rear seat. The removable rear cockpit control stick was 
found outside of the airplane, and it could not be determined if the stick was installed at the time of the 
accident. No conclusive determination could be made as to which occupant was manipulating the 
controls during the accident sequence.
The private pilot was using decongestant and allergy medications. Toxicological testing identified 
diphenhydramine, a sedating antihistamine, at levels that were likely impairing; however, the extent to 
which this contributed to the accident could not be determined.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
