Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Gainesville, Georgia
Accident Number:
ERA18FA137
Date & Time:
April 28, 2018, 17:15 Local 
Registration:
N4363F
Aircraft:
Piper PA28R
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
1 Fatal, 2 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The commercial pilot receiving instruction and a flight instructor were conducting a local instructional 
flight when the engine lost partial power and oil obscured the front windscreen. The instructor took 
control of the airplane and maneuvered toward a highway on which to conduct a forced landing; the 
airplane struck power lines and a vehicle before veering off the road and down a steep embankment, 
where it came to rest inverted.
Examination of the engine revealed that the No. 2 cylinder had separated from the cylinder mounting 
deck. The No. 2 cylinder rocker box cover and a pushrod tube were protruding from the left forward side 
of the cowling. The No. 2 cylinder connecting rod was protruding through the top of the cowling. The 
No. 2 cylinder base studs and thru bolts remained in the crankcase and were fractured at their threaded 
section. Metallurgical examination revealed that each of the fractured surfaces exhibited evidence of 
crack arrest marks consistent with fatigue cracking and microvoid coalescence features typical of 
overstress separation. The crankcase web mating surfaces at the Nos. 2, 3 and 4 bearing journals 
exhibited pitting consistent with fretting, which is typically a result of inadequate preload tension or loss 
of preload tension to the fasteners that secure the cylinder to the engine. The inadequate or loss of 
preload resulted in fatigue cracking of the No. 2 cylinder studs and thru-bolts, and the subsequent 
separation of the cylinder.
According to maintenance records, the engine underwent a major overhaul about 4 years before the 
accident and had accrued 1,071.11 hours since the last overhaul. At the time of the overhaul, the 
crankcase was reassembled, and all four cylinders were installed. It could not be determined if the thru-
bolts and studs were improperly tightened by maintenance personnel at the time of the overhaul or 
during an undocumented maintenance action that was performed after the overhaul.
Toxicology testing of the flight instructor revealed an unquantifiable amount of doxylamine, a sedating 
antihistamine that was well below that considered to cause significant effects. Therefore, it is unlikely 
that the pilot's use of doxylamine contributed to his inability to successfully perform a forced landing on 
a highway.
