Page 1 of 18
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Reno, Nevada
Accident Number:
WPR18FA131
Date & Time:
May 1, 2018, 19:31 Local 
Registration:
N352BT
Aircraft:
AMERICAN AIR RACING LTD 
THUNDER MUSTANG
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Powerplant sys/comp malf/fail
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot of the high-performance air racing airplane was taking part in an in-flight 
photography mission with two other airplanes. About 1 hour into the second flight of the day, the group 
was getting fatigued and decided to return to the departure airport. As the airplanes approached the 
airport, the accident pilot transmitted a "mayday" call and reported that he was going to land on the 
runway located directly ahead of his position. The airplane began to descend while performing an S-
turn, and touched down beyond the midpoint of the 9,000-ft-long runway at a slightly higher speed than 
normal. A 4-knot tailwind prevailed on the landing runway about the time of the accident.
A 1,200-ft-long series of propeller strikes on the runway were consistent with the pilot applying heavy 
braking after touchdown. The airplane veered right as it reached the end of the runway, entered a gravel 
area, nosed over, and came to rest inverted. Given the airplane's nominal landing distance in addition to 
the factors that increased that distance on the accident landing, namely, remaining runway at the time of 
the touchdown, the airplane's higher landing speed, and the tailwind, the pilot would have had very little 
margin for error before the airplane's landing distance required exceeded the available runway.
The vertical stabilizer collapsed when the airplane nosed over, which resulted in the canopy structure 
contacting the ground and subsequently failing. As a result, the pilot's head was impinged at an angle 
against the ground, resulting in airway restriction. The pilot's extraction from the airplane by first 
responders took about 45 minutes, and during that time, the pilot died of asphyxiation. However, unless 
he had been repositioned and his breathing enabled almost immediately following the accident, survival 
would have been unlikely, and based on the airplane's weight and inverted position, an immediate rescue 
was not possible.
It could not be determined if the canopy bow was designed to be structural in nature; additionally, visual 
inspection revealed defects that would have further weakened its supporting properties.
Examination of the engine revealed that the coolant pump drive pulley had detached due to fatigue 
