Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
West Milford, New Jersey
Accident Number:
ERA18FA138
Date & Time:
May 2, 2018, 14:10 Local 
Registration:
N4153R
Aircraft:
Piper PA32
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Fire/smoke (non-impact)
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot told a friend that he was having problems with his airplane's engine and stated that he 
was going to taxi to the end of the runway and perform an engine run-up. If the engine run-up was 
successful, the pilot was going to conduct a short cross-country flight and return. During takeoff, the 
engine experienced a total loss of power; the airplane subsequently impacted a wooded area about 1,100 
ft south of the departure runway.
Examination of the wreckage revealed that the airplane experienced an in-flight fire, with the heaviest 
concentration of thermal damage on the aft right side of the engine compartment. The fuel inlet line 
from the fuel pump to the fuel servo was loose. According to the manufacturer, the part number of the 
inlet line installed on the accident airplane was not approved for aircraft use; however, aside from the 
part number, the approved hose looked identical to the unapproved hose, and the error likely could not 
be detected during an annual inspection. The airplane's maintenance logbooks were destroyed during the 
accident and the pilot performed some of the maintenance of the airplane himself; therefore, when and 
by whom the unapproved hose was installed could not be determined. It is likely that the loose fuel line 
allowed fuel to spray onto the exhaust system, which resulted in the in-flight fire and the total loss of 
engine power.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
An in-flight fire and total loss of engine power after takeoff due to a loose fuel line. Contributing to the 
accident was the installation of an unapproved fuel line by unknown personnel.
