Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Woodward, Oklahoma
Accident Number:
CEN18LA156
Date & Time:
May 2, 2018, 16:20 Local 
Registration:
N92WL
Aircraft:
LAMINAR Lancair 360
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel related
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot was conducting a personal flight with a pilot-rated passenger in an 
experimental, amateur-built airplane. The pilot reported that, during flight at 10,000 ft, the airplane 
experienced moderate to severe turbulence for a few seconds. Shortly after, the engine stopped 
producing power without warning. The pilot immediately attempted to restart the engine to no avail. He 
flew at best glide speed toward the nearest airport, located about 12 nautical miles away, but landed 
short of the runway in a pasture, during which the airplane encountered sagebrush, which caused the 
landing gear to collapse as the airplane bounced and skidded to a stop; the fuselage sustained substantial 
damage. 
The examination of the airplane at the accident site revealed that the emergency fuel shutoff valve, 
which was located on the right side of the center console under the instrument panel, was about 1/4 of 
the way between the on (horizontal) position and the off (vertical) position. The valve could not be seen 
by the pilot. Further, the pilot-rated passenger stated that he could not see the emergency fuel shutoff 
valve. He was not sure if his knee hit the valve handle and shut off the fuel flow from the header fuel 
tank to the engine during the turbulence event. The onboard flight and engine monitoring system 
indicated that the airplane was about 10,000 ft mean sea level when it experienced about a 2g vertical 
acceleration. The engine data indicated a rapid decrease of fuel flow after the 2g acceleration with a 
coinciding decrease in exhaust gas temperatures and fuel pressure.
About 30 gallons of fuel was drained from the airplane before it was transported to the recovery facility. 
An engine examination and test run were conducted, and the engine performed satisfactorily. A second 
test was conducted to determine the effectiveness of the emergency fuel shut off valve and where it 
needed to be positioned before it cut off all fuel to the engine. There was no indication of a power loss 
until the valve handle was in the full vertical position, which then caused the engine to stop within about 
10 seconds. 
