Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Sault Ste Marie, Michigan
Accident Number:
CEN18FA160
Date & Time:
May 5, 2018, 10:02 Local 
Registration:
C-FNKZ
Aircraft:
BELAIR RAVEN
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot and pilot-rated passenger were departing on a local flight in the experimental, amateur-
built airplane in gusting crosswind conditions. Witnesses saw the airplane take off and enter a nose-high 
attitude. About 100 ft above ground level, the airplane began turning right and transitioned to a nose-low 
spin until ground impact. Examination of the airframe and engine revealed no evidence of mechanical 
malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation. The airplane was not equipped 
with any stall warning devices. 
The witness reports and damage to the airplane were consistent with the pilot failing to maintain 
sufficient airspeed during a steep takeoff climb, which resulted in the airplane exceeding its critical 
angle of attack and a subsequent aerodynamic stall. A flight instructor at the airport reported that, when 
departing the accident runway with westerly winds present, he would often notice turbulence and 
swirling air. He attributed this effect to the tall trees located about 100 yards west of the runway. 
Although autopsies revealed that both pilots were at risk for a sudden cardiac event, the circumstances 
of the accident are consistent with a loss of control rather than a sudden incapacitation, and it is unlikely 
that either pilot's cardiac condition contributed to the accident.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to maintain adequate airspeed during takeoff in gusty crosswind conditions, which 
resulted in the airplane exceeding its critical angle of attack and an aerodynamic stall. 
