Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Middletown, New York
Accident Number:
ERA18FA141
Date & Time:
May 5, 2018, 09:05 Local 
Registration:
N84396
Aircraft:
Aeronca 7AC
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
1 Fatal, 1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The pilot and flight instructor were conducting a flight review in an airplane owned by a flying club. 
Shortly after takeoff, when the airplane was about ½ mile from the departure end of the runway, a 
witness reported that the airplane "suddenly went nose down." The airplane impacted a row of trees on 
the edge of a field in a near-vertical nose-down attitude. No ground scars were found, and no tree 
damage was found other than that directly above the wreckage, consistent with little or no forward 
speed. Thus, the airplane had likely exceeded its critical angle of attack, resulting in an aerodynamic 
stall from which the pilot was unable to recover.
Witness marks on the engine's crankcase nose seal area, were consistent with a directly aft impact by the 
propeller mounting bolt nuts and showed no indications of scraping or rotation. In addition, there was no 
chordwise scratching and relatively little leading edge damage to the propeller blades. The lack of any 
chordwise scratching and relatively little leading edge damage to the propeller blades, while not 
conclusive, is suggestive of slow or no rotation of the propeller as descended through the trees. 
Examination of the airframe and engine otherwise revealed no evidence of preimpact failures that would 
have precluded normal operation.
The rear seat shoulder harness anchor separated from its attachment point to the fuselage tubing during 
the accident sequence. Although the bolt securing the anchor was not installed in accordance with the 
manufacturer's instructions (the bolt head was facing up instead of the nut), the installation error likely 
did not cause the failure. Instead, the failure was due to the anchor sliding forward between the fuselage 
tubes. The investigation could not determine if the rear seat shoulder harness anchor failed due to a 
design issue or loads beyond the design criteria.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's exceedance of the airplane's critical angle of attack during climbout, which resulted 
