Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Luling, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN18LA163
Date & Time:
May 8, 2018, 15:00 Local 
Registration:
N3291U
Aircraft:
Cessna 182F
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Collision during takeoff/land
Injuries:
3 Minor, 2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Skydiving
Analysis 
Before taking off for the skydiving flight with four passengers, the commercial pilot refueled the airplane. Shortly 
after the airplane rotated, the passengers told the pilot that fuel was leaking from the left wing. The pilot 
believed that the leak was an immediate fire risk, so he decided to perform an off-airport landing. The pilot 
abruptly lowered the airplane’s nose and landed in a field. The airplane impacted terrain in a left-wing-low 
attitude and then hit a berm. The engine and right main landing gear separated during the impact sequence, and 
the left and right wings sustained substantial damage. 
Postaccident examination revealed that the left-wing fuel tank cap was not secured and was dangling by the 
chain. During examination, no issues or anomalies with the left-wing fuel cap or fuel tank filler inlet were found, 
and the fuel cap was able to be fully secured. An examination of the airframe, engine, and remaining systems 
revealed no evidence of any preimpact mechanical malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal 
operation. Given the evidence, it is likely that the pilot did not secure the left-wing fuel cap after refueling the 
airplane.
The airport was less than 1 mile away when the passengers told the pilot about the leak. It is possible that the 
pilot could have returned to the airport and landed the airplane at the airport without further incident. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot’s failure to secure the left-wing fuel cap after refueling the airplane, which resulted in a fuel leak on 
takeoff.
