Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Goose Bay, Alaska
Accident Number:
GAA18CA269
Date & Time:
May 7, 2018, 15:00 Local 
Registration:
N2432H
Aircraft:
Piper PA 18-150
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control on ground
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
According to the student pilot in the tailwheel-equipped airplane, during his initial solo flight in the 
airport traffic pattern, he performed a go-around because "I did not like my approach." Following the 
next approach, he recalled that the airplane encountered a left crosswind gust when the airplane touched 
down on the gravel runway. He believed that the wind had shifted, and the airplane's tail was "blown" to 
the right, and its nose turned to the left. The airplane moved from the crown of the runway onto the 
down-sloping runway edge, and the tailwheel entered the soft gravel. The right wing tip then struck the 
ground, and the airplane exited the left side of the runway before it came to rest.
The airplane sustained substantial damage to the right wing spar.
The nearest METAR, located 9 miles south of the accident site, reported that, about the time of the 
accident, the wind was from 280° at 7 knots. The airplane landed on runway 8. The pilot reported that 
the wind at the time of the accident was variable at 6 knots, gusting to 10 knots.
The student reported that, "I should have caught that there had been a wind shift between my touch and 
go and when I ground looped my aircraft. In preparation for landing a final check of the windsock needs 
to be done, every time. If there is a crosswind, a wing low approach would have helped avoid losing 
control of the aircraft when I touched down." 
The student reported that there were no mechanical malfunctions or failures with the airplane that would 
have precluded normal operation. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
