Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Lone Tree, Colorado
Accident Number:
CEN18FA168
Date & Time:
May 11, 2018, 20:19 Local 
Registration:
N507TX
Aircraft:
CIRRUS DESIGN CORP SR22
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
VFR encounter with IMC
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The instrument-rated private pilot departed on a visual flight rules cross-country flight just before the 
end of civil twilight. After departing to the north, the pilot turned onto a left downwind to depart the area 
toward the south; the controller advised the pilot to stay west of the extended runway centerline, which 
the pilot acknowledged. However, about 2 minutes after takeoff, the airplane turned east and crossed the 
extended centerline. After crossing the centerline, the controller asked the pilot to state his intentions, 
and the pilot replied that he was going to return to the airport. The airplane turned back toward the 
airport and began tracking west toward the extended centerline; radar contact was lost several minutes 
later.
The airplane impacted a field about 2.5 miles to the south of the approach end of the runway. The 
airplane was massively fragmented during the impact and debris was scattered for about 1,200 ft. The 
damage to the airplane and the ground scars at the accident site were consistent with the airplane 
impacting in a right wing low, nose low attitude with relatively high energy. 
The postaccident examination of the engine and propeller assembly did not reveal any preimpact 
anomalies that would have precluded normal operation. Signatures were consistent with the engine 
producing power and the propeller developing thrust at the time of impact. While the massive 
fragmentation precluded functional testing of the flight controls, there was no damage or failure that 
suggested preimpact anomalies with the airframe or flight controls. 
While visual meteorological conditions prevailed at the airport, statements from two pilots flying 
instrument approaches to runway 35R suggest that the pilot likely encountered and was flying in the 
clouds to the south of the airport just before the accident.
A review of radar data and voice communications revealed that the instructions issued by the controller, 
to the pilot, were reasonable and in accordance with air traffic control procedures. Investigators were not 
able to establish why the pilot did not comply with air traffic control instructions. 
