Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Jacksonville, Alabama
Accident Number:
ERA18FA146
Date & Time:
May 12, 2018, 20:05 Local 
Registration:
N486T
Aircraft:
Beech 35A33
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Fire/smoke (non-impact)
Injuries:
1 Fatal, 1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot and his daughter were on the return leg of a cross-country flight in night, 
visual meteorological conditions. While in cruise flight, the pilot saw smoke in the cockpit, so he began 
turning off electrical components. The engine then sputtered and lost total power. He set up for a forced 
landing, felt heat from the engine compartment, and then saw flames coming from the same area. He 
discharged a portable fire extinguisher. At the first indication of heat, his daughter left the right cockpit 
seat and climbed into the aft cabin; the pilot did not believe she fastened her lap belt. While crossing a 
ridge, the airplane collided with trees and came to rest on the side of a hill in a forested area. The pilot 
egressed the airplane and noted that his daughter was no longer in the airplane. He subsequently found 
her; she had been thrown clear of the wreckage and was seriously injured. First responders arrived soon 
thereafter, and she later died from her injuries.
Most of the airplane's fuselage, empennage, and right wing was consumed by postcrash fire. The left 
wing separated during the impact sequence and was not burned. The engine, propeller, nose landing 
gear, and cowling separated during the impact sequence and were found outside the postcrash fire zone. 
Evidence of an in-flight fire was observed at the aft section of the engine, with the heaviest fire damage 
near fuel lines adjacent to the left muffler and heat exchanger. An examination of the muffler and heat 
exchanger revealed multiple preexisting cracks that could have allowed hot exhaust gasses to escape 
from the assembly onto the adjacent fuel lines. Damage to those fuel lines prevented determining a 
definitive origin for the ignition of the inflight fire, though the damage to those fuel lines was consistent 
with the fire being fuel-fed in nature. The largest crack of the muffler was located at the left side and 
extended 3.35 inches around the circumference through the muffler wall and coincided with a crack 
through the heat exchanger end flange that extended 4.25 inches around the circumference. Oxidation 
and exhaust deposits observed on the crack surfaces indicated the cracks developed and existed for some 
time before the accident.
The pilot, who owned the airplane, was a certificated airframe and powerplant mechanic with inspection 
authorization. He performed the airplane's most recent annual and 100-hour inspections about 4 months 
