Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Whittier, Alaska
Accident Number:
ANC18FA036
Date & Time:
May 12, 2018, 09:40 Local 
Registration:
N7061W
Aircraft:
Piper PA-28-180
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Controlled flight into terr/obj (CFIT)
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The student pilot departed on a solo cross-country flight through mountainous terrain. The airplane was 
subsequently found on the side of a steep, snow-covered mountain near a well-known, charted mountain 
pass. Detailed radar data were not available, and the airplane's GPS data did not include the end of the 
flight; therefore, the exact flight track could not be determined. 
The damage to the airplane and the debris field were consistent with a high-speed impact into deep snow 
in a relatively wings-level attitude on a heading toward the destination. Examination of the airframe, 
engine, and associated systems revealed no evidence of mechanical malfunctions or failures that would 
have precluded normal operation.
Aviation weather camera images near the time and location of the accident indicated an overcast layer of 
clouds obscuring the mountain tops, and two pilots reported low ceilings and obscured mountains in the 
area. Forecast weather products that would have been available to the pilot before the flight indicated 
visual flight rules (VFR) conditions at the departure airport and marginal VFR conditions from the 
mountain pass to the destination. There was no record that the pilot obtained a weather briefing for the 
intended route of flight. 
The pilot's flight logbook and current flight instructor(s) were not located or identified; therefore, 
whether the pilot had adequate training or had been endorsed by an instructor to complete the solo flight 
could not be determined. 
Given the reported and documented weather conditions in the area about the time of the accident, it is 
likely that the pilot encountered and chose to continue through restricted visibility conditions as he 
navigated through the mountain pass, which resulted in controlled flight into terrain. 
 
