Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Hamilton, Ohio
Accident Number:
CEN18LA173
Date & Time:
May 15, 2018, 09:45 Local 
Registration:
N6550L
Aircraft:
GRUMMAN AMERICAN AVN. CORP. 
AA 1B
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Flight test
Analysis 
About 1 month before the accident, the prior owner of the accident airplane performed a maintenance 
test flight after an engine replacement. The airplane failed a run-up because of engine roughness. The 
mechanic/accident pilot who performed the engine replacement felt that the roughness was caused by oil 
getting by the new piston rings and fouling the spark plugs. The mechanic/pilot cleaned and reinstalled 
the plugs. 
The maintenance test flight was then reattempted, and the prior owner flew in the right seat with the 
mechanic/pilot as the pilot flying. The prior owner indicated that the mechanic/pilot took the active 
runway without completing an engine run-up. The takeoff power appeared normal until about 100 ft 
above ground level, when the engine failed abruptly and without warning. The airplane's nose dropped, 
and the pilot landed the airplane, stopping it about 30 ft from the end of the runway. 
The mechanic/pilot subsequently sent the carburetor out for overhaul. After reinstalling the carburetor, 
the mechanic/pilot attempted another maintenance test flight, which was the accident flight. Witnesses 
stated that the airplane took off; they heard the engine stop, and the pilot attempted to circle back to the 
airport but did not make it. The airplane impacted terrain during the landing, which resulted in 
substantial damage to the wing and fuselage.
The mechanic/pilot completed an accident report that did not contain a narrative of the accident flight 
and advised that he did not recall the accident. Further, the pilot did not indicate the date of his last flight 
review.
A postaccident engine examination revealed no evidence of preimpact mechanical malfunctions or 
failures that would have precluded normal operation. The engine monitor sustained damage; no engine 
data was recorded for the accident flight.
