Page 1 of 11
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Cascade, Idaho
Accident Number:
WPR18FA141
Date & Time:
May 13, 2018, 12:30 Local 
Registration:
N2377R
Aircraft:
Cessna 182G
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Controlled flight into terr/obj (CFIT)
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot had planned to fly his airplane to his newly purchased hangar at the destination airport. 
On the morning of the accident, the pilot monitored weather conditions along his proposed route of 
flight through internet applications and highway traffic cameras. The pilot told a friend that the ceilings 
at the destination airport were about 700 ft and rising and that the traffic cameras showed marginal 
weather conditions. The pilot also told his friend that he would wait to depart until early to mid-
afternoon as long as the weather conditions improved. The investigation could not determine, with the 
available evidence, whether the pilot was aware of the published AIRMETs for mountain obscuration 
and icing along his route of flight during the time surrounding the accident. 
When the pilot departed, the weather at the destination airport was consistent with visual meteorological 
conditions. However, another pilot flying a similar route as the accident pilot (but in the opposite 
direction) experienced low ceilings near the accident site shortly before the accident, so that pilot 
reversed course and landed safely. Radar data associated with the accident airplane and the debris path 
signatures indicated that the accident pilot likely encountered similar weather conditions and started to 
reverse course when the airplane impacted tree tops and then the ground. The orientation and length of 
the wreckage path were consistent with controlled flight into terrain. Postaccident examination of the 
airframe and engine revealed no evidence of any preimpact mechanical malfunctions or failures. 
The pilot did not hold an instrument rating. He may have been aware of the AIRMETs for mountain 
obscuration and icing along his route of flight as he had been monitoring highway traffic cameras for 
any improvement in the weather conditions. Nevertheless, his poor decision to attempt the flight was 
likely influenced by his long-anticipated desire to finish moving into his new hangar at his destination 
airport. The pilot's route of flight was along a highway about 4,800 ft mean sea level located in a valley 
bordered by 5,500 foot tall mountains to his left and 6,500 foot tall mountains on his right and an 
overcast cloud layer at 1,100 ft above ground level. Radar data showed an airplane in a turn from a 
northern heading to a southern heading was likely from the accident airplane as it terminated near the 
