Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Hanover Park, Illinois
Accident Number:
CEN18LA181
Date & Time:
May 18, 2018, 20:32 Local 
Registration:
N667AZ
Aircraft:
Vans RV7A
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel contamination
Injuries:
1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was conducting a personal cross-country flight when the airplane had a partial loss 
of engine power shortly after takeoff. Engine operation did not improve after the pilot's 
corrective actions and a forced landing was completed to a soft field where the airplane 
nosed over upon touchdown. The fuselage, both wings, and the empennage were 
substantially damaged during the accident. 
Postaccident fuel samples taken from each wing tank sump did not exhibit any 
contamination. A fuel sample collected from the fuel supply line connected to the fuel 
injector servo inlet contained a small amount water contamination. The electric fuel pump 
was used to obtain an additional fuel sample, which also contained water contamination. 
The fuel filter, which was not equipped with a drain sump, had evidence of water 
contamination. Besides the water contamination found in the fuel system, the postaccident 
examination did not reveal any anomalies that would have precluded normal engine 
operation during the flight.
The pilot reported that the fuel samples he obtained from each wing tank sump during his 
preflight inspection were not contaminated. The pilot would have been unable to identify 
water contamination downstream of the fuel tanks, because the experimental airplane was 
not equipped with a drainable fuel filter. A review of maintenance documentation revealed 
at least one instance of water and particulate contamination being found in the fuel filter 
and the fuel injection servo finger screen. Based on the available evidence, it is likely that 
the partial loss of engine power shortly after takeoff was due to water contamination of the 
fuel system.
