Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Bennington, Vermont
Accident Number:
ERA18FA148
Date & Time:
May 20, 2018, 14:23 Local 
Registration:
N1101X
Aircraft:
Piper PA34
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
After receiving commercial and flight instructor certificates with a designated pilot examiner (DPE), the 
instrument-rated commercial pilot planned to fly back to his home airport the following day. The DPE 
reviewed weather with the pilot and advised him to delay the flight 2 days due to poor weather; 
however, the following day, the pilot attempted the visual flight rules flight in instrument meteorological 
conditions with mountain obscuration. Before departing on the flight, the pilot received three weather 
briefings and all three contained information regarding instrument flight rules conditions with mountain 
obscuration.
The pilot was receiving flight following services from air traffic control, while proceeding southeast, in 
clouds, below the minimum vectoring altitude, near mountainous terrain. The controller suggested a 
westbound turn for lower terrain and continued radar coverage. The airplane briefly turned to a 
westbound heading, then turned back to a southeast heading. About 4 miles later, the controller again 
advised the pilot that, if he continued on the present heading, radar coverage would be lost. The pilot 
asked again what heading he should fly and the controller responded westbound, to which the pilot 
responded, "westbound heading 270." Radar and radio contact were lost during the second westbound 
turn. The last radar target indicated an altitude of 3,500 ft msl and groundspeed of 218 knots about 1,000 
ft from the accident site, which was located at an elevation about 2,625 ft msl.
Examination of the accident site revealed a 60-ft debris path on a 265° course through trees, consistent 
with a 45° nose-down attitude at impact. Examination of the wreckage did not reveal any preimpact 
mechanical malfunctions. The pilot had entered clouds and was trying to fly clear of clouds. The 
conditions were conducive to the development of spatial disorientation; however, the extent to which 
spatial disorientation played a role could not be determined as the descent could have also been the 
result of an uncoordinated turn or distraction.
Probable Cause and Findings
