Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Commerce, Georgia
Accident Number:
ERA18FA149
Date & Time:
May 21, 2018, 19:10 Local 
Registration:
N94909
Aircraft:
Taylorcraft BC12
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The commercial pilot departed on a visual flight rules local flight. A witness saw the pilot conduct a 
preflight inspection of the accident airplane and depart on a 10-minute flight. When the airplane returned 
to the airstrip to land, the witness heard the engine rpm "going up and down." After the airplane landed, 
the pilot began taxiing toward the hangar but then taxied back to the runway for another takeoff. The 
witness stated that the airplane reached an altitude between about 50 and 75 ft above the runway with 
the engine sputtering. At that time, the airplane seemed to slow and was just above the trees when the 
right wing and then the nose dropped, which was followed by an impact with trees. 
Postaccident examination of the engine revealed no evidence of any preimpact mechanical malfunctions 
or failures that would have precluded normal operation. The weather conditions near the accident site at 
the time of the accident were conducive to the formation of serious carburetor icing at descent engine 
power settings. Given that these conditions existed, and that the witness reported the engine rpm may 
have been fluctuating during the airplane's previous landing approach, it is likely that carburetor ice 
accumulated during the prior descent and possibly the taxi period that followed prior to the accident 
takeoff. The undetected partial loss of power during the accident takeoff ultimately led to an 
aerodynamic stall from which the pilot was unable to recover. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to effectively mitigate an accumulation of carburetor ice, which resulted in an 
undetected partial loss of engine power and an aerodynamic stall during takeoff. 
