Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Chesapeake, Virginia
Accident Number:
ERA18FA150
Date & Time:
May 22, 2018, 07:28 Local 
Registration:
N6177W
Aircraft:
Piper PA28
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The commercial pilot completed a normal preflight inspection and engine run-up and received an 
instrument flight rules clearance from air traffic control to depart from the uncontrolled airport, where 
fog, low visibility, and clouds were present. Shortly after takeoff, the airplane entered the clouds and 
fog, climbed on the departure runway heading, and turned right, consistent with the clearance provided; 
however, the airplane continued the right turn, flying a 360° circle. During the circle, the airplane 
rapidly descended to about 60 ft above ground level (agl) then climbed to about 600 ft agl. The last radar 
data point showed the airplane at 356 ft agl, flying at 42 knots groundspeed. There were no 
communications received from the pilot during the flight. The wreckage was located in an open field 
about 1/4 mile from the last radar data point.
A postaccident examination of the airplane and the airplane's primary vacuum system did not reveal any 
anomalies consistent with a preimpact failure or malfunction. The airplane was equipped with a standby 
vacuum system and an electrically-powered attitude indicator, and the investigation found no anomalies 
with these components. Due to impact and fire damage, the investigation could not determine whether 
the standby vacuum system was activated by the pilot.
The restricted visibility, maneuvering, and workload associated with the initial post-takeoff phase of 
flight provided conditions conducive to the development of spatial disorientation, and the changes in the 
airplane's altitude, heading, and speed depicted on radar are consistent with the known effects of spatial 
disorientation. It is likely that the pilot experienced spatial disorientation during the climbing departure 
turn, which resulted in an exceedance of the airplane's critical angle of attack, an aerodynamic stall, and 
a subsequent impact with terrain.
    
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
