Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Daytona Beach, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA18FA152
Date & Time:
May 22, 2018, 19:30 Local 
Registration:
N89864
Aircraft:
Cessna 140
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Fuel starvation
Injuries:
1 Fatal, 1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The commercial pilot and pilot-rated passenger were practicing touch-and-go takeoffs and 
landings in the tailwheel-equipped airplane. Witnesses reported that, during the third touch-
and-go, as the airplane was climbing about 200 to 300 ft above ground level near the end of 
the runway, the engine lost all power and the airplane turned back toward the runway before 
spiraling to the ground. Examination of the airframe and engine revealed no evidence of any 
preimpact mechanical malfunctions or abnormalities that would have precluded normal 
operation. Each of the wing fuel tanks was about 1/4 full at the accident site. The fuel tanks 
were not breached and about 1 tablespoon of water was found in both tanks. Both the 
airplane's operations manual and markings on the fuel gauges in the cockpit indicated that the 
pilot should not take off with less than 1/4 tank of fuel. A warning supplement issued by the 
airplane manufacturer stated that, in certain flight maneuvers, the fuel may move away from 
the fuel tank supply outlet. If the outlet is uncovered, fuel flow to the engine may be interrupted 
and a temporary loss of power may result. It is possible that the pilot initially departed with 
more than 1/4 tank of fuel; however, after the third touch-and-go landing, the fuel level was at 
or below 1/4 tank. During the initial climb after the touch and go, the fuel moved away from the 
fuel supply outlet line and starved the engine of fuel, resulting in a total loss of power. The 
airplane's position at the time of the loss of engine power did not allow for a suitable off 
airport landing location. Following the loss of power, it is likely that the pilot attempted to 
return to the runway and failed to maintain sufficient airspeed during the turn, which resulted in 
the airplane exceeding its critical angle of attack and entering an aerodynamic stall.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's inadequate fuel planning, which resulted in a total loss of engine power due to fuel 
