Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Gurdon, Arkansas
Accident Number:
CEN18LA189
Date & Time:
May 21, 2018, 19:15 Local 
Registration:
N138ZX
Aircraft:
M-SQUARED AIRCRAFT SPRINT 
1000
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
2 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot reported that he and a passenger had just departed on a local, personal flight when the engine 
“suddenly stopped.” Shortly thereafter, the engine seized, and the airplane began to descend rapidly. The 
pilot deployed the airplane's ballistic parachute about 200 ft above ground level, and the airplane then 
landed hard in a residential area, which resulted in substantial damage to the wings and fuselage. The 
pilot recalled that, during the takeoff and climb, the instruments showed no unusual indications and that 
the engine made no unusual sounds. 
Examination of the engine revealed that the top of the MAG piston ring had failed, which resulted in 
damage to the MAG piston and cylinder walls. Both rubber PTO and MAG carburetor intake sockets 
were worn and cracked. Complete engine records were not available, and no record was found 
indicating that the engine had been overhauled during its 23 years of operation. The engine manufacturer 
recommended that the engine should be overhauled every 300 hours or 5 years, whichever occurred 
first, and that the rubber carburetor intake sockets should be replaced every 5 years or as signatures of 
deterioration were detected. Cracked rubber carburetor intake sockets can result in a lean mixture and 
lead to a piston seizure. The inadequate maintenance of the engine likely led to the failure of the MAG 
piston ring and the subsequent loss of all engine power due to a piston seizure.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
Inadequate engine maintenance, which resulted in the failure of the MAG piston ring and the subsequent 
total loss of engine power due to a piston seizure.
