Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Hillsboro, Oregon
Accident Number:
WPR18LA148
Date & Time:
May 26, 2018, 09:35 Local 
Registration:
N152GB
Aircraft:
Cessna 152
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
While conducting takeoffs and landings during an instructional flight, the student pilot initiated a go-
around. Shortly thereafter, the engine began to run rough and lost partial power. The instructor 
attempted to troubleshoot the engine, but was unable to restore engine power, and initiated a forced 
landing to a grass area beyond the end of the runway, during which the airplane nosed 
over. Examination of the engine revealed that the left magneto was producing spark randomly across its 
four posts. Internal examination of that magneto revealed that the distributor gear was intact; however, 
the copper electrode finger was found displaced from the plastic gear assembly.
A service bulletin issued by the magneto manufacturer about three years before the accident stated that 
some units contained distributor gears that exhibited loose electrode fingers, the symptoms of which 
included "unusual RPM drop during magneto check, difficulty starting, and/or rough running 
engines." A separate service bulletin issued 38 years before the accident specified that the magnetos 
should be inspected internally every 500 hours. The operator reported that, at the time of the accident, 
the magneto had accumulated 402.7 hours since its most recent internal inspection. The operator further 
reported they conducted internal inspections of the magnetos every 750 hours. It is likely that the loose 
copper electrode finger resulted in the partial loss of engine power during the go-around. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The partial loss of engine power during a go-around due to the loose copper electrode finger 
inside the left magneto.
