Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Petaluma, California
Accident Number:
WPR18FA150
Date & Time:
May 27, 2018, 16:00 Local 
Registration:
N4269Y
Aircraft:
MORRISON MARVIN E JR RV 6A
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The commercial pilot was departing in his experimental, amateur-built airplane. During the initial climb, 
when the airplane was between 500 to 800 ft above ground level, the engine backfired several times 
before losing power. The airplane entered a 180° turn back toward the airport; however, during the 
second half of the turn, the bank angle increased, and the airspeed slowed. The airplane entered an 
aerodynamic stall and spin and subsequently impacted terrain.
Postaccident examination of the engine revealed that the left magneto was loose on its mounting pad and 
free to rotate by hand. This would have resulted in erratic engine-to-magneto timing for that magneto 
and would likely account for the engine backfiring and the partial loss of engine power. There were no 
additional mechanical anomalies that would have precluded normal operation. No maintenance records 
were recovered, and whether any magneto-related maintenance was performed before the accident could 
not be determined.
The area beyond the departure end of the runway comprised a golf course and open fields that would 
have been favorable for a straight-ahead, forced landing. The pilot's decision to turn back toward the 
runway at low altitude and his subsequent exceedance of the airplane's critical angle of attack during the 
turn resulted in an aerodynamic stall/spin and a loss of control.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
A partial loss of engine power during initial climb after takeoff due to a loose left magneto, and 
the pilot's decision to turn back to the airport and his exceedance of the airplane's critical 
angle of attack, which resulted in an aerodynamic stall/spin and impact with terrain.
