Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Aberdeen, Idaho
Accident Number:
WPR18LA149
Date & Time:
May 27, 2018, 14:20 Local 
Registration:
N5700B
Aircraft:
Cessna 182
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was conducting a personal, cross-country flight. During the flight, the airplane encountered 
light drizzle and reduced visibility. After continuing for a few minutes in these conditions while about 
2,000 ft above ground level, the pilot decided to initiate a right turn and divert from his original 
destination. As the airplane exited the turn, the engine “stuttered” a few times and eventually lost power. 
Despite the pilot's attempts to restore engine power, during which he did not apply carburetor heat, the 
engine would only run roughly and inconsistently. He then decided to divert to another airport that was 
closer to the airplane’s position. As he was about to reattempt to restore engine power, the engine 
developed partial power; however, it was insufficient to sustain flight. Realizing the airplane could not 
reach the airport, he chose to conduct an emergency landing to an open field. During the landing roll, the 
main landing gear dug into dirt, and the nosewheel then hit the ground hard and collapsed. 
Subsequently, the nose dug into dirt, and the airplane nosed over, which resulted in substantial damage 
to the vertical stabilizer, rudder, and fuselage.  
Examination of the engine revealed no evidence of preaccident mechanical malfunctions or failures that 
would have precluded normal operation. The atmospheric conditions that existed around the time of the 
accident were conducive to the formation of serious carburetor icing at cruise power. Therefore, it is 
likely the engine lost power due to the accumulation of carburetor ice, which resulted from the pilot’s 
failure to use carburetor heat.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to use carburetor heat while operating in conditions conducive to carburetor icing, 
