Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Santa Fe, New Mexico
Accident Number:
CEN18FA192
Date & Time:
May 25, 2018, 13:42 Local 
Registration:
N79091
Aircraft:
Beech D17S
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Controlled flight into terr/obj (CFIT)
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation
Analysis 
The commercial pilot was conducting a cross-country flight in day visual meteorological conditions. 
Automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast (ADS-B) track data revealed that most of the flight was 
flown at a cruise altitude of 10,500 ft mean sea level (msl) on a direct course to the planned destination. 
About 23 minutes before the accident, the airplane began shallow turns to the right and left of a direct 
course to the destination, consistent with the pilot making manual course corrections as the airplane 
continued toward the airport. Similarly, the airplane's altitude began to fluctuate ±100 feet from the 
target cruise altitude of 10,500 ft msl. About 2.5 minutes before the accident, the airplane entered a 
descent from 10,500 ft msl. During the final 2 minutes of the flight, the airplane had an average descent 
rate of 1,375 ft per minute and a ground speed between 99 knots and 121 knots. The final ADS-B return 
was about 385 ft east-northeast of the accident site at 7,025 ft msl (near ground level), and the ground 
speed was about 106 knots. At no point during the flight did the pilot declare an emergency with air 
traffic control or report having any problems. There were no witnesses to the accident.
Examination of the airframe and engine revealed no evidence of preimpact mechanical malfunctions or 
failures that would have precluded normal operation. The airplane's landing gear and flaps were 
retracted. The fuel tanks ruptured during impact; however, fuel was observed in fuel lines, the engine-
driven fuel pump, and the carburetor. The propeller exhibited damage consistent with the engine 
operating at the time of impact. Autopsy and toxicology of the pilot revealed no evidence of 
physiological impairment or incapacitation. The reason for the airplane's descent and impact with terrain 
could not be determined based on the available information.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to maintain clearance from terrain for reasons that could not be determined 
based on the available information.
