Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Wichita, Kansas
Accident Number:
CEN18LA197
Date & Time:
May 28, 2018, 12:10 Local 
Registration:
N64176
Aircraft:
FAIRCHILD(HOWARD) M 62C(PT-
23A)
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel exhaustion
Injuries:
2 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot reported that he filled the airplane with fuel 5 days before the accident flight. He had not flown 
the airplane in the intervening 5 days, and the fuel indicators were still showing that the tanks were full before 
the accident flight. The pilot calculated that there should have been sufficient fuel onboard for a 3-hour 15-
minute-long flight. The pilot was performing flyovers at five cemeteries, which required flying holding orbits at 
three of the cemeteries and two passes at the other two cemeteries. He then flew back toward the departure 
airport to land. When the airplane was about 5 minutes from the airport, he switched fuel tanks to what 
appeared to be the fullest tank. He reported that the fuel level in both fuel tanks was low but that the fuel 
quantity indicators were showing above “E.” While on final approach, between 150 and 200 ft above the 
ground, the engine lost total power. He switched fuel tanks and started using the manual pump, and the engine 
regained power for 1 to 2 seconds before losing power again. He subsequently conducted an off-airport, forced 
landing in a lot about 1/8 mile from the end of the runway. The airplane touched down hard and bounced, and 
the right wing hit a pole. The airplane then impacted a fence and another pole before coming to rest.
The pilot used a flight tracker program, and it showed that the flight was only 2 hours 41 minutes long. 
Postaccident examination of the accident site found no fuel spillage. Examination of the airplane revealed that 
each fuel tank contained about 1/2 cup of fuel. About a teaspoon of fuel was recovered from the engine strainer 
bowl. Although the pilot thought there was sufficient fuel onboard the airplane for the flight, given the evidence, 
it is likely that the engine lost power due to fuel exhaustion because the pilot miscalculated the fuel 
consumption rate during preflight planning.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
