Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Omaha, Nebraska
Accident Number:
CEN18FA193
Date & Time:
May 27, 2018, 08:40 Local 
Registration:
N263CE
Aircraft:
Beech P35
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control on ground
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot and pilot-rated passenger were conducting a personal flight in the single-engine airplane. 
Witnesses stated that about 1,300 ft from the departure end of the runway during the takeoff roll, 
the airplane exited the left side of the runway, traveled across a grass median between the runway and 
taxiway, onto taxiway surfaces, and impacted several runway and taxiway light structures. The airplane 
then returned to the runway, crossed the end of the runway, became airborne, and appeared to stall. The 
airplane's left wing impacted terrain, the airplane cartwheeled, and a post-impact fire ensued. Witnesses 
stated the airplane looked like it was out of control during the takeoff sequence, and the engine remained 
at full power. Surveillance video captured portions of the takeoff and runway excursion; the footage was 
consistent with witness accounts. Toxicological testing found a potentially impairing drug in the pilot; 
however, it is unlikely that the negative effects of the drug directly contributed to the outcome of this 
accident.
Examination of the airframe and engine revealed no evidence of mechanical malfunctions or failures 
that would have precluded normal operations. A member of the pilot's family stated that he did not 
think the pilot flew regularly enough to stay proficient in the operation of the airplane; however, the 
pilot's logbook was not available for review and his recency of experience could not be determined. It 
is likely that the pilot, who was seated in the left seat, was flying the airplane since the right seat rudder 
pedals were not equipped with brakes. Because of this configuration, the pilot-rated passenger would 
have been unable to apply brake pressure to attempt to stop the airplane during the takeoff, although 
the engine throttle was accessible to both occupants.
The circumstances of the accident are consistent with the pilot's loss of directional control during the 
takeoff roll and his subsequent failure to abort the takeoff following the runway excursion.
Probable Cause and Findings
