Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Tekamah, Nebraska
Accident Number:
CEN18LA199
Date & Time:
May 28, 2018, 09:30 Local 
Registration:
N47252
Aircraft:
Aeronca 58B
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
2 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot reported that, about 30 minutes after departing for a personal, local flight, he was 
conducting a tribute over a cemetery and noticed that the engine was not running properly, so he 
proceeded to fly toward an airport located about 8 nautical miles (nm) to the east. While en route to the 
airport, the engine stopped developing full power and had a maximum rpm of about 1,500. The airplane 
descended, and during the forced landing, it impacted a ditch about 3 nm from the airport, which 
resulted in substantial damage to the airplane. The pilot stated that he should have landed the airplane in 
a flat field when the opportunity was possible, instead he "kept flying into a situation where there were 
no options." 
Postaccident examination of the airframe and engine revealed no evidence of any preaccident 
mechanical malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation. At the time of the loss 
of engine power, the airplane was operating in conditions conducive to carburetor icing at glide power. 
The pilot reported that he was not using carburetor heat. It is likely that, during the tribute, the pilot 
reduced engine power, resulting in a buildup in carburetor ice, which restricted the air and fuel flow and 
caused the reduced engine power. When the reduced engine power condition occurred, the pilot should 
have identified an appropriate forced landing site; however, he chose to continue to fly the airplane to an 
airport located about 8 nm away. When the engine lost total power, he had to make a forced landing on 
unsuitable terrain.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The partial loss of engine power due to the formation of carburetor ice. Contributing to the 
accident was the pilot's failure to use carburetor heat and his decision to continue flight with 
