Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Butler, Kentucky
Accident Number:
GAA18CA307
Date & Time:
May 27, 2018, 18:18 Local 
Registration:
N95410
Aircraft:
Piper PA28
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel starvation
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot reported that, while en route, the airplane's engine began to run roughly and lose power. He 
immediately turned toward the nearest airport and slowed the airplane to 100 knots. He added that he 
pushed the mixture to full rich, which caused a short burst of power that lasted just a few seconds. He 
then pumped the throttle and applied carburetor heat but then realized he did not have enough altitude to 
make the airport and began to look for an alternate landing site. 
The pilot further added that, after locating a ridgetop field, he slowed the airplane to 75 knots and pulled 
one notch of flaps and trimmed for landing. As he lined the airplane up with the field, he pulled full 
flaps about 300 ft above the ground. The touchdown was smooth, and the airplane continued the landing 
roll in 3-ft-tall wheat. Subsequently, the right wing struck an industrial irrigation nozzle, and the right 
wing separated from the fuselage. 
The airplane sustained substantial damage to the right wing and stabilator.
The pilot reported that there were no preaccident mechanical failures or malfunctions with the airplane 
that would have precluded normal operation.
The pilot added that, during the engine failure, he did not attempt to change the fuel tank from the empty 
right wing fuel tank and recommended to make the fuel selector check the first part of the restart 
procedure.
The Federal Aviation Administration inspector reported that, while on scene, he was able to run the 
engine. He added that the left tank was about 1/2 full of fuel. He switched the fuel selector to the left 
tank and started the engine normally. The oil pressure was fine; the fuel pressure was normal on both the 
electric pump and engine-driven pump; and the magnetos checked fine. 
