Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
San Jose, California
Accident Number:
WPR18LA153
Date & Time:
May 20, 2018, 19:50 Local 
Registration:
N244TW
Aircraft:
Piper PA24
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Landing gear collapse
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot had rented the airplane and conducted an uneventful personal flight earlier that day. He 
departed later that afternoon, destined for an airport a few hundred miles away. According to the pilot, 
after the airplane was established on the downwind leg, he extended the landing gear and observed that 
the landing gear position indicator light was illuminated green, which denoted that the landing gear was 
down and locked into position. He verified that indication on the base leg. The approach and touchdown 
were normal and uneventful, and the pilot then began to brake the airplane. When the airplane was 
traveling about 30 mph, the landing gear "suddenly collapsed." The airplane slid on its belly and came to 
a stop on the runway, which resulted in substantial damage to the fuselage. 
During recovery of the airplane, the cockpit landing gear handle was found to be in the fully down 
position. Initial postaccident examination of the airplane revealed that the two main landing gear (MLG) 
could be fully extended via the normal cockpit landing gear handle but that the nose landing gear (NLG) 
did not fully extend, the extension motor did not shut off, and the green cockpit indicator light did not 
illuminate. Manual attempts to fully extend the NLG by pulling it forward were unsuccessful. Aft-
directed light-to-moderate force applied to the NLG tire resulted in unlocking the two MLG, which 
allowed all three gear to be retracted via manually pushing on the NLG. These results demonstrated that 
the landing gear system was susceptible to uncommanded retraction when the system was not properly 
adjusted. The reason for the failure of the NLG to fully extend and lock after the accident could not be 
determined, and the investigation could not determine if this condition existed before the accident.
During subsequent examination, the NLG was mechanically isolated from the rest of the landing gear 
system. Subsequent landing gear travel tests in this configuration revealed that all three landing gear 
were able to be independently moved into their respective fully extended and locked positions. When the 
NLG was fully extended, it was more difficult to dislodge by aft pressure to the NLG tire than during the 
previous examination. The NLG travel change that resulted from mechanically isolating the NLG 
indicated that after the accident, there was some physical constraint that limited NLG travel and 
prevented downlock; however, the investigation was unable to determine the nature or cause of the NLG 
