Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Tonopah, Nevada
Accident Number:
WPR18LA156
Date & Time:
May 30, 2018, 11:08 Local 
Registration:
N191HL
Aircraft:
Beech A36
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
2 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot reported that, after the airplane reached about 8,000 ft mean sea level for the personal, 
cross-country flight, he began to smell smoke and then heard a popping sound. The engine then began to 
lose power, and he initiated a return to the airport. During the descent, the engine lost all power, and the 
pilot maneuvered the airplane to land on a highway. Due to obstructions, the pilot subsequently landed 
the airplane on a highway median. The airplane landed hard, which resulted in substantial damage to the 
fuselage and wings.
Examination of the engine revealed signatures consistent with detonation, which led to the failure of the 
No. 4 piston, the crankcase becoming pressurized, oil being pumped overboard, and the eventual oil 
starvation of the engine components.
A review of data from the engine data monitor (EDM) revealed that, during the flight that occurred 
earlier that day, the fuel flows and engine temperatures were appropriate. However, the EDM data for 
the accident flight revealed that the fuel flow was significantly lower during the takeoff and en route 
climb portions of the flight and that the cylinder head, turbine inlet, and oil temperatures reached 
extremely high values.
The pilot stated that he could not specifically recall the steps he took to manage the fuel/air mixture 
during the flight. The low fuel flow recorded on the EDM along with the excessive temperatures 
suggests that the mixture was set lean. Additionally, following the accident, the mixture control 
appeared to be leaned for cruise flight, rather than at full rich. However, the aircraft flight manual 
specified that the fuel mixture should be set to full rich during all operational phases from engine start 
through cruise climb. Given the evidence, it is likely that the pilot improperly leaned the fuel/air mixture 
and that he did not adequately monitor critical engine parameters via the cockpit gauges, which led to 
the high engine temperatures going undetected and resulted in oil starvation and the subsequent 
catastrophic engine failure.
