Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Union, Illinois
Accident Number:
CEN18LA205
Date & Time:
May 27, 2018, 18:15 Local 
Registration:
N19366
Aircraft:
Cessna 150L
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Glider tow
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot reported that he was returning from a routine glider tow flight when he 
thought "something was wrong." He noted that it seemed to "get dark" although there was plenty of 
daylight. The airplane was high on the approach. The pilot continued the flight inbound but was unsure 
of the airplane's exact altitude or airspeed as it crossed the runway threshold, and he did not recall 
verifying that the engine power was at idle. The airplane "bounced down the field" and he flew toward 
an opening in the trees off the end of the runway. The pilot did not see the power lines until the airplane 
struck them and then came to rest in a field. The pilot recalled not having an "aviation related thought" 
during the landing. A postaccident examination of the airframe and engine did not reveal any evidence 
of preimpact mechanical malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation.
The pilot had completed the Federal Aviation Administration BasicMed medical certification, which 
was valid at the time of the accident. The pilot described symptoms consistent with fainting or nearly 
fainting, which commonly occur when blood pressure is low and would have led to an inability to safely 
fly the airplane. The pilot thought that dehydration or heat exhaustion might have caused his symptoms. 
However, given his long-standing paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, his difficulty effectively controlling it 
after the accident, his documented low blood pressure during those episodes, and his lack of symptoms 
during the episodes of atrial fibrillation other than "feeling bad," it is likely that his symptoms during the 
flight were related to an episode of atrial fibrillation associated with a rapid heart rate and low blood 
pressure. Therefore, symptomatic near fainting as a result of uncontrolled paroxysmal atrial fibrillation 
likely caused the accident.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
