Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
San Diego, California
Accident Number:
GAA18CA319
Date & Time:
June 3, 2018, 14:15 Local 
Registration:
N786SA
Aircraft:
Cessna 172
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Ground collision
Injuries:
1 Minor, 2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The flight instructor, who was on the controls, reported that he and a student taxied for departure. Upon 
arrival at the departure end of the runway, there were four airplanes ahead of them in a run-up area. He 
added that the first airplane moved to the hold-short line and that, after he completed the engine run-up, 
they moved forward to the hold-short line behind the first airplane. The other three airplanes, which 
were biplanes, remained in the run-up area. After the departure of the first airplane, the instructor told 
the control tower they were ready for departure, and the tower controller replied to stand by. The tower 
controller then cleared the three biplanes, which were waiting in the run-up area for takeoff as a flight of 
three. The second biplane in the flight struck the instructor's airplane's right aileron as it taxied past.
The pilot of the tailwheel-equipped biplane reported that he was the second in the flight of three. He 
added that the flight had been holding in the run-up area at a 45° angle to complete their run-up checks 
when the tower controller cleared the flight for takeoff. He began to follow the lead airplane, and his 
airplane struck the airplane stopped at the hold-short line. He reported that he never saw the stopped 
airplane until after the impact.
The instructor's airplane sustained substantial damage to the right aileron.
In an interview with the Federal Aviation Administration inspector, the flight instructor reported that he 
was not aware that the three biplanes were part of a single flight awaiting takeoff clearance. He also 
reported that he had never flown tailwheel airplanes and was not aware of their limited forward 
visibility.
The flight instructor and biplane pilot reported that there were no preaccident mechanical failures or 
malfunctions with their respective airplanes that would have precluded normal operation.
