Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Amagansett, New York
Accident Number:
ERA18LA157
Date & Time:
June 2, 2018, 14:33 Local 
Registration:
N41173
Aircraft:
Piper PA 31
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
4 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The commercial pilot of the multiengine airplane was the first of a flight of two airplanes to depart on 
the cross-country flight, most of which was over the Atlantic Ocean. The pilot of the second airplane 
stated that he and the accident pilot reviewed the weather for the route and the destination before 
departing; however, there was no record of the accident pilot receiving an official weather briefing and 
the information the pilots accessed before the flight could not be determined. The second pilot departed 
and contacted air traffic control, which advised him of thunderstorms near the destination; he 
subsequently altered his route of flight and landed uneventfully at the destination. The second pilot 
stated that he did not hear the accident pilot on the en route air traffic control frequency.
Two inflight weather advisories were issued for the route and the area of the destination about 42 and 15 
minutes before the accident flight departed, respectively, and warned of heavy to extreme precipitation 
associated with thunderstorms. It could not be determined whether the accident pilot received these 
advisories.
Review of air traffic control communications and radar data revealed that, about 5 miles from the 
destination airport, the pilot of the accident airplane reported to the tower controller that he was flying at 
700 ft and "coming in below" the thunderstorm. There were no further communications from the pilot. 
The airplane's last radar target indicated 532 ft about 2 miles south of the shoreline. The airplane was 
found in about 50 ft of water and was fragmented in several pieces. Postaccident examination revealed 
no preimpact anomalies with the airplane or engines that would have precluded normal operation.
A local resident about 1/2 mile from the accident site took several photos of the approaching 
thunderstorm, which documented a shelf cloud and cumulus mammatus clouds along the leading edge of 
the storm, indicative of potential severe turbulence. Review of weather imagery and the airplane's flight 
path showed that the airplane entered the leading edge of "extreme" intensity echoes with tops near 
48,000 ft. Imagery also depicted heavy to extreme intensity radar echoes over the accident site extending 
to the destination airport.
