Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Salem, Oregon
Accident Number:
ANC18FA041
Date & Time:
June 3, 2018, 18:15 Local 
Registration:
N375KF
Aircraft:
MASON HAL J KITFOX MODEL 1
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The student pilot had just completed maintenance on his newly purchased experimental, amateur-built 
light sport airplane and told a witness that he was going to conduct taxi tests. A few hours after 
observing the airplane taxi along the runway multiple times, he noticed that the student's vehicle and 
trailer were still parked at the airport but that the airplane was not there. The airplane wreckage was 
subsequently located near the edge of a wooded area about 100 yards from the runway. 
The student's flight instructor estimated that the he had accumulated about 35 total hours of flight 
experience, almost all of which was in another make and model airplane. He stated that he did not think 
the student had not previously flown the accident airplane make and model.
The fuselage exhibited accordion-style crushing damage, consistent with a near-vertical impact 
indicative of a loss of airplane control. Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed no evidence of 
any preimpact mechanical failures or malfunctions that would have precluded normal operation.
Although toxicological testing detected one potentially sedating antihistamine in the student's urine, it 
was not detected in blood. Therefore, the use of the medication likely did not contribute to the accident.
Based on the available evidence, it is likely that the student decided to take off in the airplane and, 
shortly after takeoff, lost airplane control. The student had not been endorsed by an instructor to fly the 
accident airplane solo and likely didn't not have the experience to maintain control after takeoff. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
