Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Warsaw, Kentucky
Accident Number:
ERA18LA158
Date & Time:
June 3, 2018, 09:45 Local 
Registration:
N8698
Aircraft:
Bellanca 7ECA
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Preflight or dispatch event
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
After a preflight inspection and engine run up revealed no anomalies, the pilot attempted to takeoff from 
an upsloping turf runway. The initial takeoff roll was normal; however, as the airplane reached 60 knots, 
the pilot determined that the airplane’s acceleration was not "normal" and that the airplane would not 
clear the trees at the end of the runway, nor be able to stop within the remaining runway. The pilot then 
rejected the takeoff, applied full rudder, and the airplane ground looped, resulting in substantial damage 
to the fuselage.
A cursory examination of the engine did not reveal any preimpact mechanical anomalies that would 
have precluded normal operation; however, the examination did not determine whether the engine was 
capable of developing its full rated power during the accident takeoff. 
The runway measured 1,100 ft by 125 ft and had an approximate 3% slope. The calculated density 
altitude at the time of the accident was about 2,389 ft, and the wind reported at the nearest weather 
observation facility would have provided a headwind component of about 3 knots for the takeoff 
runway. According to the pilot’s operating handbook, at maximum gross weight, the airplane would 
have required about 938 ft to clear a 50-ft obstacle, given the wind conditions and a dry, level grass 
runway; however, the actual distance required would have been greater than the calculated 938 ft due to 
the upsloping runway. 
It is likely that the reduced acceleration noticed by the pilot was the result of decreased engine 
performance due to the density altitude combined with the upsloping runway, both of which would have 
increased the runway distance required to reach takeoff speed. It is also likely that even with full engine 
power, given the conditions on the day of the accident, the runway distance required would have been 
close to or exceeded the runway length available. Although the pilot acted appropriately by aborting the 
takeoff upon realizing that the airplane would not clear the trees at the end of the runway, his delayed 
decision to abort resulted in insufficient runway remaining on which to slow and stop the airplane. 
