Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Mojave, California
Accident Number:
ANC18LA042
Date & Time:
June 4, 2018, 11:52 Local 
Registration:
VH-XMH
Aircraft:
GIPPSAERO PTY LTD GA10
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
2 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Flight test
Analysis 
The airplane manufacturer was conducting spin flight testing for the installation of a cargo pod when the 
airplane exhibited aberrant behavior and the testing was halted. The chief design engineer (CDE) was 
consulted, and, to provide a margin of safety for further flights, a forward center of gravity position was 
authorized for flaps up and flaps takeoff entries to gain more insight into the airplane's behavior on the 
previous flight. At the final briefing, before the next flight, the flight crew added spins with flaps in the 
landing configuration (flaps landing) into the test plan without the CDE's consultation or authorization. 
According to the pilot flying, after two wings-level, power on, flaps landing spins with left rudder and 
right aileron, a third spin entry was flown in the same configuration except that the entry was from a 30° 
left-bank turn. The airplane entered a normal spin, and, at one turn, flight controls were inputted for a 
normal recovery; however, the airplane settled into a fully developed spin. When recovery attempts 
failed, the decision was made to deploy the anti-spin parachute. After repeated unsuccessful attempts to 
deploy the anti-spin parachute, and when the airplane's altitude reached about 500 ft above the briefed 
minimum bailout altitude, both pilots called for and executed a bailout. The airplane impacted the 
ground and was destroyed.
A postaccident examination of the anti-spin parachute system revealed that half of the connector hook 
had opened, which allowed the activation pin lanyard for the anti-spin parachute to become disengaged. 
Based on the airplane's previous aberrant behavior and the conservative parameters that the CDE had 
previously set, it is not likely that the CDE would have authorized abused spin entries without a prior 
testing buildup to those entries. Thus, the flight crew made an inappropriate decision to introduce flaps 
landing entry spin testing, and the failure of the anti-spin parachute contributed to the accident.
Probable Cause and Findings
