Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Ramona, California
Accident Number:
ANC18LA043
Date & Time:
June 1, 2018, 11:18 Local 
Registration:
N9410M
Aircraft:
Cessna 210
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Landing gear collapse
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot was conducting a personal, cross-country flight. He reported that he attempted to lower 
the retractable landing gear during a visual approach; however, the right main landing gear (MLG) did 
not fully extend. He attempted to manually pump the landing gear down with the emergency hand pump, 
but it was very difficult to move, and after several pumps, it would not move at all. Upon landing, the 
right MLG collapsed and the airplane impacted the ground, which resulted in substantial damage to the 
right horizontal stabilizer and elevator. Postaccident examination and tests revealed that, when the MLG 
system was tested using the airplane’s engine-driven hydraulic pump, fluid started leaking from a gap in 
the pump’s diaphragm seal between the front plate assembly and the rear housing assembly, and the 
MLG would not extend. Subsequently, the MLG system was tested with an external hydraulic pump, 
and it functioned properly. The two front plate cap screws on the side of the leaking pump gap were 
loose, had only three or four threads engaged with the rear assembly, and had insufficient shank length. 
The corresponding rear housing internal threads were sheared.
Due to the installation of cap screws with insufficient shank length, fewer threads were engaged when 
the screws were tightened. The insufficient length of the shanks likely led to excessive force being 
applied on the engaged threads when the cap screws were installed, the threads being damaged, and a 
gap in the pump housing to develop, which allowed fluid to leak from the pump when it was 
pressurized. The hydraulic leak prevented the right MLG from fully extending and resulted in it 
collapsing upon landing.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
