Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Longview, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN18LA209
Date & Time:
June 1, 2018, 07:34 Local 
Registration:
N72066
Aircraft:
Luscombe 8A
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel starvation
Injuries:
1 Serious, 1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Flight test
Analysis 
The commercial pilot departed on the personal flight with about half fuel. During the departure climb, 
the airplane experienced a loss of engine power. The pilot subsequently performed a forced landing to a 
field, and, during touchdown, the airplane nosed over and impacted the ground. Postaccident 
examination of the airplane revealed no evidence of mechanical malfunctions or failures that would have 
precluded normal engine operation. The pilot reported that he did not use carburetor heat during the 
takeoff. The use of full carburetor heat during takeoff and landing was stipulated by the airplane's type 
certificate data sheet, which indicated that a placard is required stating, "Full carburetor air heat required 
for takeoff and landing." However, the accident airplane did not have that placard installed. 
Further, a special airworthiness information bulletin (SAIB) applicable to this airplane configuration 
noted the need for procedures to prevent the possible loss of power on takeoff and climb and stated that 
flight testing revealed that fuel flow could be interrupted from the fuselage-mounted tank as a result of 
acceleration and higher pitch attitudes commonly encountered in takeoff and climb. The SAIB stated 
that the use of full carburetor heat on takeoff is unconventional yet necessary to ensure continuous fuel 
flow to the engine. Thus, the pilot's failure to use carburetor heat resulted in the loss of engine power.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to use carburetor heat for takeoff, which resulted in an interruption of continuous fuel 
flow to the engine and a loss of engine power during climb. Also causal was the lack of required 
placarding warning of the need to use full carburetor heat on takeoff and landing.
