Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Uvalde, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN18LA213
Date & Time:
June 7, 2018, 10:24 Local 
Registration:
N3291X
Aircraft:
Beech F33A
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot departed on a cross-country flight, which was the second flight after recent maintenance. The 
pilot reported that, about 48 minutes into the flight at 8,500 ft mean sea level, the manifold pressure 
suddenly dropped with a simultaneous engine explosion; oil was on the windshield, and "there was fire 
everywhere." He reduced the mixture, throttle, and propeller controls. The pilot reported the emergency 
to air traffic control and received vectors to the closest airstrip, which was about 6 nautical miles south-
southeast. He indicated that he had difficulty maintaining glide speed because the nose of the airplane 
was pitching upward. During the descent, he extended the landing gear, and the airplane impacted trees 
and terrain and came to rest about 500 yards west of the intended runway. The airplane was destroyed 
by a postimpact fire.
A postaccident examination of the airplane revealed that the engine exhibited excessive heat signatures 
consistent with a lack of oil lubrication. The lack of oil resulted in the No. 2 connecting rod becoming 
disconnected from the crankshaft, which punctured a large hole in the crankcase. The engine oil filter 
was found loose on its mount and safety wired in the counterclockwise direction. During the 
examination, when the oil filter was manually rotated about one-half turn clockwise to tighten, the safety 
wire prevented it from further rotation; however, the oil filter could have rotated further. Due to the fire 
damage, investigators could not determine if there had been a gasket installed between the oil filter and 
mount. The exhaust manifold directly underneath the oil filter had burn marks, which were likely from 
oil that had leaked from the oil filter onto the exhaust manifold. Based on the available evidence, it is 
likely that the loose oil filter allowed oil to leak from the engine and resulted in oil starvation and a total 
loss of engine power. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
