Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Decatur, Texas
Accident Number:
DCA18CA201
Date & Time:
June 10, 2018, 20:43 UTC 
Registration:
N750AN
Aircraft:
Boeing 777 223
Aircraft Damage:
None
Defining Event:
Turbulence encounter
Injuries:
1 Serious, 7 Minor, 
261 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 121: Air carrier - Scheduled
Analysis 
On June 10, 2018, at about 2043 UTC, American Airlines flight 60, N750AN, B777-200, turbulence 
during descent to Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport (KDFW) Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas. Of the 
269 passengers and crew onboard, one passenger received serious injuries and seven flight attendants 
received minor injuries.  There was no damage to the airplane.  The flight was operating under 14 Code 
of Federal Regulations Part 121 as a scheduled international passenger flight from Narita International 
Airport (RJAA) Narita, Japan, to KDFW.
As the flight began its descent into KDFW, the captain illuminated the seatbelt sign and made a public 
address announcement reminding passengers that the seatbelt sign was on and that they were to "return 
to your seats and buckle up for the remainder of the flight." Shortly after the captain notified the flight 
attendants (FA) to "prepare for landing and take your seats", the airplane entered a band of small 
cumulus clouds and experienced 10-15 seconds of moderate turbulence.
When the turbulence was encountered, the FAs were conducting their final cabin safety checks since the 
captain had informed them that there might be turbulence during descent. As a result, seven FAs were 
thrown to the floor and one passenger, who had ignored the seatbelt sign and instructions to remain 
seated, was also thrown to the floor and injured his left ankle.  The FAs notified the flight crew, who 
arranged for paramedics to meet the airplane at the gate.  After landing, the passenger was transported to 
the hospital where he was diagnosed with a broken ankle and the seven FA's who had received various 
minor injuries were treated at the airplane and released.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
