Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Monroe, Wisconsin
Accident Number:
CEN18FA216
Date & Time:
June 10, 2018, 12:01 Local 
Registration:
N1880B
Aircraft:
Cessna T182T
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
4 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The commercial pilot was conducting a personal, cross-country flight. Upon arrival at the destination 
airport, air traffic control (ATC) cleared the pilot for a GPS approach. The controller instructed the pilot 
to change to the airport common traffic advisory frequency after passing the initial approach fix. The 
pilot acknowledged, after which point no further communications were received. The available ATC 
data depicted the airplane tracking the final approach course until radar contact was lost less than 2 
miles from the runway due to routine radar coverage limitations. Radar contact with the airplane was not 
regained. Low instrument meteorological conditions prevailed, and the cloud ceiling was below the 
minimum descent altitude for the approach. 
A witness heard the airplane immediately before the accident and described the sound as similar to an 
airplane performing aerobatic maneuvers. She subsequently observed a "fireball" through an opening in 
the tree line behind her home and immediately heard an explosion. The accident site was located about 
1/2 mile north of the runway departure threshold. 
Postaccident airframe and engine examinations did not reveal any anomalies consistent with a preimpact 
failure or malfunction.
The investigation was unable to determine whether the autopilot was engaged during the flight. 
However, the precise flight track and course intercepts depicted by the position data are consistent with 
extended portions of the flight, including the initial portion of the approach, being flown by the 
autopilot. While the published missed approach procedure included a left turn, the location of the 
accident site in relation to the runway indicated that a right turn was executed during the missed 
approach. This revealed that the pilot was not using the course guidance from the autopilot and was 
either using the autopilot in heading mode or was flying the airplane manually. Based on the witness 
description of an airplane performing aerobatics, it is likely that the pilot was flying the airplane 
manually.
Furthermore, it is probable that the airplane remained in instrument meteorological conditions during the 
