Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Daytona Beach, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA18LA164
Date & Time:
June 9, 2018, 15:00 Local 
Registration:
N21161
Aircraft:
Piper PA 44
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
2 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The flight instructor stated that he and the private pilot-receiving instruction, who had the controls, 
informally checked the weather before departing for the cross-country instructional flight but that they 
did not obtain an official weather briefing. The flight was operating on an instrument approach in 
instrument meteorological conditions, which included thunderstorms, frequent lightning, and low-level 
wind shear advisories in effect at the destination airport. A tower controller at the destination airport 
issued the flight a local instrument clearance and provided wind and supplemental weather information, 
which included wind from 310° at 14 knots, gusting to 20 knots; a low-level windshear advisory, which 
included wind from 320° at 15 knots and a 15-knot gain 1 mile from the end of the runway. The 
controller also advised the pilot that the visibility was probably 1 mile in “that precipitation" and that 
there was “frequent lightning cloud to ground.” During the approach, the airplane began encountering 
rain, which increased in intensity as the airplane neared the final approach fix (FAF). Shortly after 
passing the FAF, when the airplane was about 800 ft mean sea level, the controller issued a low-altitude 
alert. The flight instructor took the controls, added full power, and attempted to climb the airplane; 
however, it continued descending while about 90 knots throughout the descent and upon impact. The 
airplane impacted houses and then came to rest inverted in a retention pond.
The flight instructor noted that there were thunderstorms east of the destination airport when the flight 
began; however, he did not anticipate their potential impact on the flight. While in-flight, both pilots 
failed to identify the frequent lightning and low-level windshear advisory as a severe weather hazard and 
continued the approach into an area of thunderstorm activity instead of diverting to an alternate airport.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
