Page 1 of 11
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Sitka, Alaska
Accident Number:
ANC18FA044
Date & Time:
June 8, 2018, 20:00 Local 
Registration:
N1203A
Aircraft:
Piper PA18
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was flying a lodge client on a wildlife viewing flight in a floatplane. About 2 hours after the 
planned return time, the airplane was reported overdue and a search was coordinated. The airplane 
wreckage was located nose down in a confined shallow river the next day. The airplane did not have 
GPS, ADS-B or a recording system, and there was no radar coverage in the area of the accident; 
therefore, the flight track was unknown. 
The airplane impacted the river bottom in a 70 ° nose down attitude with the front floats absorbing much 
of the energy and the aft fuselage displaced and twisted right, indicative of impact during a stall/spin. 
All flight controls were intact and continuous, and the engine exhibited no anomalies. The propeller 
blades exhibited rearward bends with torsional twist and some chordwise scrapes, and propeller strikes 
were evident on deadfall trees trunks at the initial impact site, which are all indications of impact with 
engine power. The right fuel tank cap was not located but given that there was evidence of engine power 
at impact, it is unlikely that fuel siphoning/exhaustion was causal. It is likely that the pilot was 
maneuvering the airplane in slow flight to show the passenger wildlife, and, in doing so, exceeded the 
airplane's critical angle of attack, resulting in the stall.
The airplane was equipped with 4-point shoulder harnesses on both seats; however, first responders 
reported that the pilot did not have the shoulder harness fittings inserted into the lapbelt buckle. The rear 
seat passenger was ejected during the impact and examination of the shoulder harnesses for his seat 
revealed no indication of deformation of the webbing or metal end fittings, indicating he was also likely 
not using the shoulder harnesses at the time of impact. His lapbelt buckle however, was deformed 
although it was fully functional.  It is possible that the use of the shoulder harnesses may have prevented 
the rear seat passenger's ejection and/or mitigated some of the occupants' injuries had they been in use at 
the time of the accident.
