Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Baton Rouge, Louisiana
Accident Number:
CEN18LA221
Date & Time:
June 8, 2018, 16:05 Local 
Registration:
N190RS
Aircraft:
Beech 58
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Explosion (non-impact)
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The commercial pilot reported that, during initial climb after takeoff, she heard a "loud bang" and saw 
flames coming from the trailing edge of the right wing. Subsequently, she was able to conduct an 
uneventful emergency landing.
The fire was located outboard of the right engine near the wingtip and auxiliary fuel tank. Black soot 
was visible near the right wingtip navigation and anticollision lights. Black soot and blue fuel stains 
were found near the fuel vents located on the bottom side of the wing under the right wingtip 
anticollision light. Blue fuel stains were also found under the right wing near the main and auxiliary fuel 
tanks and inside the wing cavity near the electrical wiring for the right wing navigation light. The 
examination of the right wing revealed that the wiring for the right wing anticollision light was crimped 
together with "handshake" connectors and then wrapped with electrical tape. The wiring was not 
properly insulated. The source of the fuel leak could not be determined due substantial damage to the 
right wing caused by the fire. 
About 6 1/2 years before the accident, the airplane manufacturer issued a Safety Communique titled, 
"Outboard Wing Fire Potential Due to Fuel Leaks and Electrical Wire Chafing." The communique 
advised owners and operators of a potential safety issue concerning loose wiring and fuel fumes in the 
structural areas of the airplane. The communique reminded owners and operators to maintain the fuel 
and electrical systems in accordance with the maintenance manuals and to ensure there were no visible 
fuel leaks around the vents and sump drains. It further stated that no fuel leaks or staining should be 
observed around the vents and sump drains during preflight inspections. 
Based on the postaccident examination, the fuel leak found on the bottom of the right wing might have 
been a preexisting condition; however, the pilot did not remember seeing any fuel staining during the 
preflight. The evidence further suggests that the initial ignition occurred behind the anticollision light in 
the right wingtip as a result of an improper repair, during which the anticollision light wiring was not 
