Page 1 of 13
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Springfield Township, New Jersey
Accident Number:
ERA18FA167
Date & Time:
June 13, 2018, 09:07 Local 
Registration:
N218BL
Aircraft:
RAYTHEON AIRCRAFT COMPANY 
58
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Positioning
Analysis 
The private pilot, who was not instrument current, and a passenger departed on an instrument flight rules 
flight into instrument meteorological conditions. After takeoff, the pilot did not climb to the clearance 
altitude of 2,000 ft mean sea level (msl), instead leveled off about 500 ft msl. The pilot then began a 
second climb to a maximum altitude of 1,400 ft, then leveled off, followed by a steep right descending 
turn to about the base of the clouds about 400 ft. The airplane then began a climb to 1,700 ft msl while 
the airspeed decreased. While flying in a right bank near the published wings-level, 1-g stall speed, the 
airplane likely exceeded its critical angle of attack, stalled, and entered a descent. A witness reported 
hearing a loud engine sound from the low-flying airplane, and last observed the airplane in a slight left 
bank, although the airplane impacted the ground in a nose and right-wing low attitude.
Examination of the flight controls, engines, engine systems, and propellers revealed no evidence of 
preimpact failure or malfunction. While postaccident acceptance testing of autopilot components 
revealed minor out-of-tolerance conditions, the conditions noted would not have adversely affected 
proper operation. Although the presence of moisture in the static system could not be ruled out because 
the static system was destroyed, it is unlikely that was an issue because the ADS-B data for pressure 
altitude and geometric altitude calculated by the GPS revealed no gross difference.
The restricted visibility, maneuvering during the transition from takeoff to cruise flight, and the pilot's 
lack of instrument proficiency provided conditions conducive to the development of spatial 
disorientation. The airplane's altitude and track variations were inconsistent with its takeoff and 
departure clearance and the high velocity impact are consistent with the known effects of spatial 
disorientation. Therefore, it is likely that the pilot became spatially disoriented while flying in 
instrument meteorological conditions and lost control of the airplane. Contributing to the loss of control 
was the pilot's lack of recent instrument experience.
