Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Eureka Springs, Arkansas
Accident Number:
CEN18LA223
Date & Time:
June 14, 2018, 11:15 Local 
Registration:
N9098C
Aircraft:
Aeronca 7BCM
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was conducting his first flight in the airplane that he purchased earlier the same 
day. The pilot stated that he did not identify any anomalies during his preflight inspection of 
the airplane and that the fuel tank had been topped-off before the flight. He reported that 
the engine started normally and that he observed no anomalies during two separate engine 
run-ups that he completed before takeoff. He noted that he verified full engine speed, 
checked proper operation of both magnetos, and cycled the carburetor heat control during 
both engine run-ups.
The pilot reported that after an uneventful takeoff, about 200 ft above ground level, the 
engine suddenly lost power. The pilot stated that the engine was partially running but was 
unable to produce enough thrust to sustain level flight. The pilot decided to return to the 
airport due to heavily wooded terrain ahead of the airplane's position. The pilot stated that 
he rolled the airplane into a steep left turn, and about halfway through the 180° turn, the 
airplane entered an aerodynamic stall at a low altitude. The pilot reported that the airplane 
impacted terrain in a left-wing-down, nose-down attitude. The forward fuselage, outboard 
left wing, and both wing struts sustained substantial damage during impact.
A postaccident wreckage examination did not reveal any evidence of mechanical 
malfunction that would have precluded normal operation of the airplane or its engine 
during the flight. The fuel samples collected after the accident were free of contamination. 
The cause of the partial loss of engine power could not be determined with the available 
evidence. It is likely that when the pilot turned back to the airport after the engine lost partial 
power, he did not maintain adequate airspeed and exceeded the airplane’s critical angle of 
attack, which resulted in an aerodynamic stall.  
