Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Rotan, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN18FA227
Date & Time:
June 15, 2018, 15:38 Local 
Registration:
N734BS
Aircraft:
Cessna 172N
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Controlled flight into terr/obj (CFIT)
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Aerial observation
Analysis 
The airplane had completed an aerial photography mission with a pilot and passenger aboard and was en 
route to the destination airport. Video and photographic evidence obtained from two devices located in 
the wreckage (a Garmin Aera 560 portable GPS device and a GoPro Hero 4 action camera) and an 
online social media post indicated that the pilot was operating the airplane at high speeds and low 
altitudes during the accident flight. Photographs taken from within the airplane showed the canyon, 
wooden poles, and suspended power lines that the airplane eventually struck. In the final image retrieved 
from the GoPro camera, the airplane was in a moderate left bank at a similar altitude as the surrounding 
canyon and power lines and was heading toward the power lines. Given the image timestamp, the 
recorded time of the final GPS point, and the relative distance from the final GPS location and the 
accident site, it is likely that the final image from the GoPro camera depicted the canyon and wires that 
were struck. The airplane then impacted terrain and came to rest in a canyon about 900 ft from the 
location where the power lines crossed the canyon. A large portion of power line cable was found 
wrapped around the engine's crankshaft about 15 times, indicating that the engine was operating at 
considerable power output when the impact occurred. 
Toxicological testing showed the presence of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the primary psychoactive 
compound in marijuana, as well as the inactive metabolites of cocaine in the pilot's blood and urine 
specimens. No active cocaine was found in the pilot's blood specimens, so it is unlikely that the pilot 
was impaired by cocaine. Although the pilot likely had a low level of active THC in his system, it is 
unlikely that impairment from this low level of THC contributed to the circumstances of this accident. 
Thus, the available evidence indicated that the pilot intentionally conducted low-level flight through a 
canyon without recognizing that power lines crossed the canyon, which led to the airplane's impact with 
power lines and subsequent impact with terrain.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
