Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Hesperia, California
Accident Number:
WPR18FA171
Date & Time:
June 14, 2018, 17:00 Local 
Registration:
N580B
Aircraft:
Beech A35
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Abrupt maneuver
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was conducting a personal flight; witnesses reported that the takeoff and initial climb appeared 
normal, however something came off the airplane near the end of the runway. The airplane climbed to 
about 800 ft before the nose dropped and it made a "radical left turn." After the turn, the wings appeared 
vertical and the airplane lost about 400 ft. The airplane leveled out and appeared to be going back 
toward the airport, however the nose remained low. The airplane turned right and appeared to align with 
a road.  The airplane then struck powerlines that were parallel to the road, impacted the ground, caught 
on fire, and came to rest inverted. The mechanic who worked on the airplane the day before the 
accident, reported that the airplane had quite a few maintenance issues; he completed a few maintenance 
items that the pilot wanted fixed. However, the mechanic indicated to the pilot that he shouldn't fly the 
airplane until the remaining work could be completed. 
The pilot purchased the airplane less than a year before the accident. The airplane's most recent 
maintenance logbook entries were inconsistent and contained date corrections. In addition, there was a 
6-7 year gap between the most recent logbook entries with about 27 hours recorded on the tachometer 
during that time. 
Wreckage documentation revealed that several pieces of the spinner and spinner bulkhead had separated 
shortly after takeoff and were found on the departure end of the runway. Some of the screws remained 
attached to the spinner and were undamaged, however, a majority of the screw holes were ripped. 
Metallurgical examination revealed that the fractures across the rivets and rivet holes were consistent 
with progressive fatigue crack growth. 
However, postaccident examination of the airframe and engine revealed no other anomalies that would 
have precluded normal operation. Damage signatures to the propeller blades were consistent with the 
engine producing power at the time of impact and it appears that the pilot should have been able to 
maintain sufficient altitude and airplane control to return to the airport. 
