Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Thomson, Georgia
Accident Number:
ERA18LA168
Date & Time:
June 14, 2018, 18:00 Local 
Registration:
N45TX
Aircraft:
Stinson L 5
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Powerplant sys/comp malf/fail
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
While in cruise flight, the pilot noticed an increase in oil temperature and loss of oil pressure. 
Shortly thereafter, the engine lost total power, and the propeller stopped rotating. The pilot 
performed a forced landing to a lake, which resulted in substantial damage. Examination 
revealed that the propeller could not be rotated by hand, and the crankshaft was fractured at 
the No. 2 crank pin. Review of maintenance logbooks revealed that the most recent engine 
overhaul was performed about 24 years and 711 flight hours before the accident. Since that 
time, the propeller had been removed and replaced on two separate occasions due to propeller 
strikes. There was no record of any crankshaft inspections following either of the propeller 
strikes, contrary to manufacturer guidance. 
Additional damage found on the Nos. 1 and 2 cylinders was caused by the crankshaft failure 
and pistons that impacted their respective rods and skirts. In addition to the main fracture, a 
separate crack was discovered slightly aft of the No. 1 main bearing and had propagated nearly 
the width of the crankshaft, but had not fully failed. The thrust nut, which required 375 ft-lbs of 
torque, was easily removed without effort or special tools, indicating that it was torqued to a 
value significantly below specification. This could cause axial play along the crankshaft and 
contribute to the progression of the crankshaft failure that was likely initiated during the 
previous 2 propeller strikes. The crankshaft likely failed after its structural integrity was 
compromised during previous propeller strikes. The improper torque on the thrust nut likely 
exacerbated the failure of the crankshaft.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
