Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Greenwood, Illinois
Accident Number:
CEN18LA228
Date & Time:
June 16, 2018, 10:40 Local 
Registration:
N81047
Aircraft:
RGJ AVIATION LLC JOHNSON AIR 
CAM
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
2 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
After a fly-in event, the airline transport pilot was attempting a short-field takeoff from a 2,802-ft 
runway. The pilot added flaps to increase aircraft performance; he checked the flight controls and 
confirmed the flap setting before takeoff. He stated that he rarely used flaps, that the airplane does not 
require the use of flaps for a short takeoff roll, and that the airplane make and model had a takeoff roll of 
300 ft. The pilot stated that he had about 1,400 ft of runway available and that he rotated the airplane at 
50 knots. However, a witness stated the airplane back taxied only about 100 ft past the runway threshold 
and then turned around for what appeared to be getting ready for takeoff. A second witness stated he 
heard the pilot make a radio transmission that he was going to back taxi. The witness watched the 
airplane back taxi and very shortly after it crossed the numbers of the runway, it stopped and turned 
around. A few seconds later, the pilot applied full throttle, and the airplane began to roll forward. A third 
witness stated that the pilot attempted the takeoff with about 600 ft remaining to the end of the runway 
and that the airplane lifted off surprisingly quickly, perhaps 350 ft from the west edge of the runway, 
maybe further back. Shortly after takeoff, the right wing dropped, and the pilot experienced a loss of 
aileron control, which were consistent with the exceedance of the airplane's critical angle of attack and 
an aerodynamic stall. The airplane impacted the ground to the right of the runway and cartwheeled 
before coming to a stop. Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed no mechanical malfunctions 
or failures that would have precluded normal operation. It is likely that the pilot took off with 
insufficient runway available and exceeded the airplane's critical angle of attack. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
