Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Sacramento, California
Accident Number:
WPR18CA172
Date & Time:
June 14, 2018, 11:38 Local 
Registration:
N2165
Aircraft:
DORNIER GMBH ALPHA JET
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Landing gear not configured
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The pilot-under-instruction planned a visual, simulated no-flap approach and landing during an 
instructional flight in a twin-engine advanced jet trainer. Audio data provided by the Federal Aviation 
Administration indicated that the pilot requested a left closed traffic, simulated no-flap pattern and stated 
that he needed to go out about 4 miles upwind. By the time the air traffic tower controller responded, the 
pilot had already started the crosswind turn; therefore, the controller cleared him to the overhead pattern, 
left closed traffic. Subsequently, the controller initially instructed the pilot to make the base turn when 
able but then instructed him to turn immediately to be sequenced in front of slower traffic on a 5-mile 
final approach. The controller stated that he would give the pilot the 4 miles he requested on the next 
pattern. The pilot accepted the turn clearance and reported to the controller that he was turning. A 
review of radar data indicated that, during the final turn, the airplane overshot the final approach by over 
1,800 ft to the northwest. Subsequently, the airplane landed on its belly and sustained substantial 
damage to the bottom of the fuselage. A postlanding fire ensued.
The filed company report stated that flying a no-flap approach and landing required maintaining a higher 
airspeed during the final turn, and when established on final approach, the airspeed had to be quickly 
bled off. The higher approach speed, difficulty of maintaining airspeed, and the early turn to final 
increased the pilot's workload during the simulated no-flap pattern. While on final approach, the pilot 
extended the air brakes, which are typically extended just before lowering the landing gear but failed to 
extend the landing gear. The flight instructor failed to notice the omission, which resulted in a gear-up 
landing. The pilots reported no preimpact mechanical malfunctions or failures with the airplane that 
would have precluded normal operation. 
