Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Beloit, Kansas
Accident Number:
CEN18LA230
Date & Time:
June 18, 2018, 12:30 Local 
Registration:
N756SW
Aircraft:
Cessna TR182
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Sys/Comp malf/fail (non-power)
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot was practicing takeoffs and landings in the airport traffic pattern when the left main 
landing gear (MLG) failed to extend. He cycled the gear, but the left MLG still would not extend. He 
then attempted to manually extend the gear without success. The pilot subsequently executed an 
emergency landing on the turf runway.
During recovery of the airplane, one of the left brake caliper's back plate bolts was found backed out. 
Scrape marks were present on the fuselage skin, consistent with contact from the extended back plate 
bolt. The MLG extension/retraction system and the emergency extension system both performed 
normally during postaccident examination.
An annual inspection had been completed 6 days before the accident, and the airplane had accumulated 
a total of 3.2 hours since then. The mechanic that performed the inspection reported that the brake 
calipers were removed at that time and that the bolts had not been secured with safety wire after they 
were re-installed.
Given the evidence, it is likely that the mechanic did not properly torque the left brake caliper back plate 
bolt after he re-installed it during the annual inspection, which allowed it to back out and led to the 
subsequent failure of the left MLG to extend. Although safety wire would have prevented the bolt from 
backing out, the airframe manufacturer's service manual was not consistent about whether to use safety 
wire. Regardless, the bolt would not have backed out if it had been tightened within the specified torque.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
