Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Enid, Oklahoma
Accident Number:
CEN18FA232
Date & Time:
June 19, 2018, 07:15 Local 
Registration:
N2063B
Aircraft:
AIR TRACTOR INC AT 502B
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Low altitude operation/event
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 137: Agricultural
Analysis 
The agricultural airplane was dispatched to apply fertilizer to a nearby field that he had fertilized the 
previous day. One witness observed the airplane make 8-10 passes over the field then saw the airplane 
fly low, pop up, and make a turn. According to the witness, the airplane ran into the guy wire of a tower 
and then the airplane "twisted violently…and dropped straight down." The 405-ft-tall tower was 
properly painted and lighted and was marked on the sectional chart. Examination of the accident site 
revealed that the airplane struck the top portion of the tower and impacted the ground in a near-vertical 
attitude. 
Detailed examination of the airplane and engine did not reveal any pre-impact mechanical anomalies 
that would preclude normal operation. Toxicology testing detected doxylamine, a potentially impairing 
sedating antihistamine, in the pilot's blood and urine. While the detected level was within the normally 
sedating range, because doxylamine undergoes postmortem redistribution, levels in postmortem blood 
may be elevated above antemortem levels. Therefore, whether the pilot was impaired by the sedating 
effects of doxylamine at the time of the accident could not be determined. Additionally, the toxicology 
testing identified an antidepressant, citalopram, in the tested samples. Citalopram itself is not known to 
cause significant impairment but major depression can significantly affect judgment, response time, and 
executive functioning. However, because the pilot's health care prescriber could not be identified, the 
extent of any potential depressive symptoms at the time of the accident could not be determined. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to see and avoid a known obstacle (communications tower) during agricultural 
spraying operations.
