Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Vero Beach, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA18LA171
Date & Time:
June 17, 2018, 11:20 Local 
Registration:
N8674Y
Aircraft:
Piper PA 30
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Landing gear collapse
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot reported that, after a local flight, he returned to his home airport and entered the right base 
leg of the airport traffic pattern for landing. Due to traffic ahead of him, the pilot extended the landing gear 
early to decrease airspeed. He confirmed that the landing gear were extended by seeing the green light 
indication in the cockpit and by using the reflective mirror on the left engine nacelle to see that the nose landing 
gear (NLG) was extended. On short final approach, the pilot again confirmed that the landing gear were 
extended, and the airplane touched down near the touchdown markings. The pilot added that, after about 500 
ft of landing roll, the NLG collapsed, and the airplane came to rest upright on the runway. The airplane sustained 
substantial damage to the underside of the fuselage.
Examination of the wreckage revealed that all three landing gear had collapsed. Further examination of the 
landing gear system revealed no evidence of any preimpact mechanical malfunctions or failures that would have 
precluded normal operation. Although the main landing extension rods were found bent, no anomalies or 
damage was found that would have precluded normal operation of the landing gear. Therefore, the reason for 
the landing gear collapse could not be determined.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The collapse of all three landing gear for reasons that could not be determined because postaccident 
examination of the landing gear system revealed no evidence of any mechanical malfunctions or failures that 
would have precluded normal operation.
