Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Monroe, North Carolina
Accident Number:
ERA18LA172
Date & Time:
June 19, 2018, 13:50 Local 
Registration:
N201FD
Aircraft:
Mooney M20J
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
According to the pilot, the purpose of the flight was to conduct instrument approaches; a pilot-rated 
passenger was on board. The pilot had completed the instrument landing system instrument approach 
procedure to near decision altitude in visual conditions and initiated the missed approach with a 
climbing right turn. He indicated that when the airplane was about 600 ft above ground level, "the 
engine suddenly started to falter." The pilot initiated a course reversal to conduct a forced landing on the 
opposite runway, but the airplane stalled just above the runway and landed hard about 45° off the 
runway heading. The landing gear separated, the fuselage was substantially damaged, and the airplane 
slid into the grass infield where it came to rest.
Examination of engine and GPS track data revealed the airplane had entered a full-power climb near the 
approach end of the 7,001-ft runway when fuel flow and engine rpm rapidly decreased. The climb was 
arrested, and instead of continuing straight ahead, the airplane entered a descending right turn. About 30 
seconds into the descent, the last GPS position was recorded about 3,200 ft down the runway, 1,100 ft 
right of centerline, at an altitude of 1,023 ft.
An engine start attempted at the airport shortly after the accident was unsuccessful; however, after the 
airplane was recovered to a recovery facility, the engine was successfully started and run on the airframe 
using the airplane's own fuel system. The reason for the loss of engine power could not be determined.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
A loss of engine power for reasons that could not be determined based on the available information.
