Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Yellow Pine, Idaho
Accident Number:
WPR18LA176
Date & Time:
June 21, 2018, 12:00 Local 
Registration:
N1979P
Aircraft:
Piper PA 18-150
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot was conducting a personal, cross-country flight as part of a flight of three. One of the 
pilots reported that, as the flight of three approached the one-way-in, 700-ft-long remote mountain 
airstrip, the lead pilot surveyed the area, and he reported that no other airplanes were in the area. 
Subsequently, he and the lead pilot landed at the airstrip uneventfully. After landing, he parked his 
airplane at the top of the airstrip facing directly down the runway, which allowed him to easily see the 
approach path to the airstrip. As he was waiting for the accident airplane to come into view, he asked the 
accident pilot “…you’ve been in here before, right”? The accident pilot replied that he had not, and the 
other pilot then reminded the accident pilot to fly “low over the creek.” He added that, when the accident 
airplane came into view, it was higher than the lead airplane had been on its approach. When the 
accident airplane had almost reached the extended runway centerline, the accident pilot added power, 
after which, the airplane pitched up steeply. The airplane then continued upstream of a nearby creek for 
about 1/2 mile with the nose up and “not climbing well, if at all.” The airplane then entered a left turn, 
followed by the left-wing dipping and the airplane entering a left spin. The pilot stated that he saw the 
airplane make 1 1/4 rotations before it descended out of his sight and impacted terrain and that the 
engine sounded like it was developing full power from the time of the initial go-around until impact.
The pilot’s brother and one of the pilots who witnessed the accident reported that there were no 
preaccident mechanical malfunctions or failures with the airplane or engine that would have precluded 
normal operation. The pilot does not recall the events leading to the accident. Therefore, based on the 
available information, it is likely that the pilot failed to maintain adequate airspeed and exceeded the 
airplane’s critical angle of attack during the go-around, which resulted in an aerodynamic stall/spin at 
too low of an altitude to recover. 
The accident flight was the accident pilot’s first attempt to land at the airstrip, which is confined by 
mountainous terrain and requires pilots to land one way and depart the other with virtually no go-around 
options during the approach. A plan view of the airstrip recommended that it “be used only by mountain 
proficient pilots who have had a checkout specific to the airstrip.” In an Aircraft Owners and Pilots 
