Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Newburyport, Massachusetts
Accident Number:
ERA18LA175
Date & Time:
June 20, 2018, 12:45 Local 
Registration:
N239AM
Aircraft:
AIRCRAFT MFG & DEVELOPMENT 
CO CH 2000
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Collision during takeoff/land
Injuries:
1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot reported that, after a personal, cross-country flight, he entered the traffic pattern at the 
destination airport and noted a 20° left crosswind between 9 and 11 knots. The final approach was stable, but 
after crossing the threshold, the airplane descended and drifted left over grass adjacent to the runway. Because 
the airplane was not over the runway, the pilot chose to conduct a go-around and added full power, but the left 
main landing gear struck the grass next to the runway. The airplane did not climb and continued drifting left. The 
pilot retracted the flaps in an attempt to gain altitude; however, the airplane still did not climb, and the stall 
warning horn activated. He pushed the yoke forward to avoid a stall, and the airplane touched down on the 
grass and then impacted trees, which resulted in substantial damage to the wings and fuselage. 
The pilot reported that there were no mechanical malfunctions or failures with the airplane that contributed to 
the accident. A stand of trees was located left of the runway. It is possible that the trees blocked the crosswind 
when the airplane descended below treetop level and that the pilot did not adequately compensate for the 
existing winds during the final approach and landing flare. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to adequately compensate for existing crosswind conditions during the final approach and 
landing flare, which led to the airplane drifting left of the runway, and his delayed decision to go around, which 
resulted in the airplane touching down in the grass next to the runway and a subsequent collision with trees.
