Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Chicago, Illinois
Incident Number:
OPS18IA015
Date & Time:
June 21, 2018, 09:58 Local 
Registration:
B-18711
Aircraft:
Boeing 747
Aircraft Damage:
None
Defining Event:
Miscellaneous/other
Injuries:
4 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Non-U.S., commercial
Analysis 
CAL5148 was conducting an ILS autoland approach to runway 10R. Instrument meteorological 
conditions prevailed at the time of the incident, with an overcast ceiling of 600 feet above ground level 
(agl), and visibility of 2 and 1/2 miles with moderate rain. These conditions required protection of the 
ILS critical area by ATC which they did according to FAA Order JO 7110.65, Air Traffic Control. ATC 
issues control instructions to protect ILS critical areas and avoid signal interference from vehicle traffic 
and taxiing aircraft when the reported weather is a ceiling of less than 800 feet or visibility of less than 2 
miles. However, this restriction does not include consideration for preceding arriving or departing 
aircraft.
While a previously departed aircraft was airborne and over the ILS critical area, CAL5148 experienced 
localizer deviations while on short final. In math modelling analysis of this event conducted by the 
FAA; the results were consistent with the localizer deviations determined from CAL5148 flight data 
recorder (FDR) data. Specifically, the modelling indicated the deviation beginning at 1/4 mile from 
threshold would lead the aircraft to turn left to continue to follow the localizer course line during an 
autoland approach. The FAA National Resource Engineer for Navigation who performed the modelling 
wrote “I am 90% confident that the location of departing ENY3544 caused sufficient Multipath (signal 
deflection) to produce a fly left indication to arriving CAL5148.”
“Multipath” is a term used to describe the distortion of the radiated signal which is caused by the signal 
being deflected off either stationary or moving objects such as aircraft or vehicles in the localizer or 
glide slope critical area(s).
Probable Cause and Findings
