Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Maple Lake, Minnesota
Accident Number:
CEN18LA237
Date & Time:
June 22, 2018, 18:30 Local 
Registration:
N736MM
Aircraft:
Zenith STOL CH701
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot and the flight instructor were flying in the airport traffic pattern. The pilot indicated 
that he smelled a "burnt electrical" smell after takeoff, so they decided to remain in the traffic pattern. 
After about 10 minutes of flight, the engine began to backfire and then lost total power. 
The pilot switched fuel tanks, turned the fuel boost pump on, and attempted a restart of the engine with 
no success. The pilot reported that he initially decided to attempt a forced landing on the runway. 
However, he assessed that he would be unable to clear power lines and instead decided to execute a 
forced landing onto a road. The airplane landed short of the road, impacted a ditch, and came to rest in a 
grass-covered field. During the forced landing sequence, the nosewheel collapsed, which resulted in 
substantial damage to the fuselage and engine mount, and the right wing impacted a sign and sustained 
substantial damage.
Postaccident examination of the airframe and engine revealed no preimpact mechanical malfunctions or 
failures with the airframe and engine that would have precluded normal operation. However, the engine 
would not start after multiple attempts. The origin of the "burnt electrical" smell could not be 
determined. Fuel was found on board; thus, fuel exhaustion did not occur. The reason for the loss of 
engine power could not be determined based on the available evidence.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The total loss of engine power for reasons that could not be determined based on the available evidence.
