Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Detroit, Michigan
Accident Number:
CEN18FA236
Date & Time:
June 24, 2018, 19:57 Local 
Registration:
N3896P
Aircraft:
Cessna P210N
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel exhaustion
Injuries:
2 Fatal, 1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
As the pilot approached his destination after a cross-country flight, the airplane's landing gear did not 
fully extend. Over the next 7 minutes, the pilot attempted to troubleshoot the landing gear in the airport 
traffic pattern before he reported to the tower controller, "Well, I just burnt outta fuel, we're totally out 
bud." The tower controller immediately cleared the pilot to land; however, there were no additional 
communications from the pilot and the final radar return was recorded about 180 ft above ground level 
and about a mile northwest of the runway. The airplane impacted trees and an electricity service line in 
an urban residential area.
A postcrash fire destroyed most of the forward fuselage and cockpit. The landing gear motor/pump 
assembly and the hydraulic fluid lines were damaged during impact and the fire, which precluded 
comprehensive testing of the landing gear extension/retraction system. The landing gear selector handle 
and the emergency extension handle were destroyed during the fire. The nose and right main landing 
gear were found fully extended and secured by their respective downlocks. The left main landing gear 
was found fully retracted in the wheel well and secured by its uplock. There were small tree branches 
and leaves observed in the wheel well between the left landing gear leg and the fuselage, indicating that 
the left landing gear was partially extended and was pushed up into the wheel well during the accident. 
Both main landing gear moved freely by hand between the retracted and extended positions without any 
anomalies, and their respective up- and down lock assemblies secured both landing gear as designed. All 
three landing gear actuators functioned normally when hydraulic pressure was applied using a hand-
actuated pump. The extensive impact and fire damage to the landing gear extension/retraction 
components precluded determination of why the landing gear did not fully extend during the flight. A 
postaccident engine examination did not reveal any evidence of mechanical malfunction that would have 
precluded normal operation during the flight.
Although the pilot had departed on the flight with enough fuel to reach his intended destination, he did 
not have enough fuel remaining to adequately address the landing gear malfunction before the airplane 
had a total loss of engine power due to fuel exhaustion. Federal regulations stipulate that daytime flights 
under visual flight rules depart with enough fuel to reach the intended destination plus at least 30 
