Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Fairbanks, Alaska
Accident Number:
ANC18LA048
Date & Time:
June 22, 2018, 17:30 Local 
Registration:
N3125D
Aircraft:
Cessna 180
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Sys/Comp malf/fail (non-power)
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
According to the pilot, he was landing with a right crosswind, and after touchdown, as the airplane 
began to decelerate, he applied left brake to maintain directional control. He stated that the left brake 
pedal was "soft" and traveled to its full forward limit. The airplane weathervaned and skidded sideways 
before the left main wheel went off the landing area and into brush. The left wing and left horizontal 
stabilizer impacted terrain, which resulted in substantial damage. The pilot noted in a postflight 
examination that the brake line had separated at the compression fitting near the brake caliper where the 
brake line transitioned from a rigid line to a flexible line.
A laboratory examination of the brake line and its components revealed that the interior surface of the 
failed end had circumferential marks consistent with formation of a flared end with a flaring tool. The 
sleeve was trapped within the nut from the failed end, and deposits of gray metal appearing consistent 
with deformed brake tube material were observed deposited on internal threads of the nut.
According to Federal Aviation Administration Advisory Circular AC 43-13-1B, "Acceptable Methods, 
Techniques, and Practices – Aircraft Inspection and Repair," a double flare is used on soft aluminum 
tubing having a 3/8-inch outside diameter or less. No evidence of folded walls consistent with a double 
flare was noted at either end of the brake line tube.
No records could be found that showed the manufacture or assembly date of the fractured brake line 
components. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
