Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Alexander City, Alabama
Accident Number:
ERA18LA177
Date & Time:
June 24, 2018, 09:20 Local 
Registration:
N19MM
Aircraft:
CRAWFORD RV-7
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot reported that the accident flight was the first flight in the airplane since he thought 
the condition inspection was completed. He found out after the accident that the mechanic had not completed 
the condition inspection nor signed off the maintenance logbook. The mechanic reported that he still had 
several questions that needed to be answered.
The pilot stated that he took off for the personal, cross-country flight and then flew the airplane for 45 minutes. 
He added that, when the airplane reached 2,000 ft above ground level and he reduced the throttle, the engine 
“popped” twice and then lost all power. He looked at the fuel gauges, verified that sufficient fuel was onboard, 
and switched the selector valve to the other tank. The pilot did not believe that the airplane could glide to the 
runway at the destination airport, so he chose to land the airplane in a field. During the approach, the airplane 
impacted tree tops and power lines and then terrain. A postcrash fire ensued, which consumed most of the 
cockpit and forward portion of the airframe. 
Examination of the engine, which exhibited fire damage but was intact, revealed no evidence of any preimpact 
mechanical malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation. The reason for the loss of 
engine power could not be determined.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
A total loss of engine power for reasons that could not be determined because examination of the engine 
revealed no evidence of any preimpact mechanical malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal 
operation.
