Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Orlando, Florida
Accident Number:
WPR18LA179
Date & Time:
June 25, 2018, 08:15 Local 
Registration:
N60E
Aircraft:
Cessna 340A
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Runway excursion
Injuries:
4 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot reported that engine start, run-up, and taxi were all normal in preparation for the personal 
flight. The pilot began the takeoff roll using the full length of the dry, paved 6,000-ft runway, but shortly 
thereafter he felt a "sudden lag." The maximum speed he observed on the airspeed indicator was 43 
knots, and the airspeed indicator needle "seemed to be fluttering." He confirmed that the engine controls 
were properly set and then decided to discontinue the takeoff about halfway down the runway by 
reducing power and applying the brakes and spoilers to decelerate the airplane. The airplane did not 
appear likely to stop before overrunning the end of the runway, so the pilot steered the airplane to the 
right as it ran off the runway end. The airplane impacted and stopped in a culvert about 500 ft beyond 
the runway and sustained substantial damage to the fuselage nose.
Postaccident examination of the airplane, airspeed indication system, and engines did not reveal any 
preimpact mechanical malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation. Several 
months after the accident, the airplane was repaired, and engine test runs revealed two minor but 
unrelated turbocharger problems. One problem affected the left engine, and the other affected the right 
engine, but they did not manifest themselves concurrently. In each case, the affected engine did not 
develop full rpm, but the other engine did develop full rpm. The investigation was unable to determine 
whether these problems existed at the time of the accident takeoff. If they did exist, unless they occurred 
simultaneously, they would have manifested as a significant asymmetric thrust between the two engines, 
which would have been obvious to the pilot. The pilot did not report any shortcomings in engine rpm or 
such thrust asymmetry. The airplane was subsequently ferried to its destination, and both engines 
operated normally for that flight.
Accident site review revealed that the airplane traversed a total distance of about 6,500 ft during its 
takeoff roll and stop. Calculations performed postaccident indicate that, with a normal acceleration to 43 
knots, had the airplane continued at that speed, it would have taken 35 seconds to reach the halfway 
point of the runway, at which point the pilot would have had 3,000 ft remaining to stop from 43 knots, 
which should have been sufficient. 
