Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Jacksonville, Florida
Accident Number:
WPR18LA183
Date & Time:
June 23, 2018, 14:40 Local 
Registration:
N5682B
Aircraft:
Cessna 182
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Skydiving
Analysis 
The commercial pilot reported that he had been conducting skydiving support flights on the day of the 
accident. Before his first flight, the airplane had about 23 gallons of fuel onboard. He flew the airplane 
for about 4.0 hours and then added about 18 gallons of fuel to the airplane. He flew three more local 
flights and then made a second fuel stop and added 14 gallons of fuel to the airplane. The pilot did not 
conduct fuel consumption checks to estimate the engine’s fuel consumption rate nor did he check the 
total fuel quantity in the tanks after the first and second refuelings. After making two more local flights 
and while on final approach to the airport, the engine lost total power, and the pilot conducted a forced 
landing to a residential area, during which the right elevator and right wing sustained substantial 
damage.
After the accident, no fuel was found in the wing tanks; however, the airplane had come to rest on its 
right side with the right-wing tank breached and the left-wing tank in a position to allow drainage, which 
likely allowed any remaining fuel to leak out into the ground. Further, the original carburetor engine had 
been replaced with a fuel-injected engine and wing extensions had been added to the airplane. 
Performance charts for the airplane did not account for these changes. Therefore, the amount of fuel 
onboard the airplane when the engine lost power could not be determined. The engine was test-run, and 
it started and ran successfully. The reason for the loss of engine power could not be determined based on 
the available evidence. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
A total loss of engine power for reasons that could not be determined due to insufficient evidence. 
