Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Berlin, Maryland
Accident Number:
ERA18LA181
Date & Time:
June 29, 2018, 09:15 Local 
Registration:
N9745Y
Aircraft:
Beech 35B33
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
1 Serious, 1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot stated that, shortly after he retracted the landing gear during the initial climb after takeoff, the 
airplane began to vibrate and the engine lost power. The pilot initiated a 180° return to the runway, but 
unable to reach it, performed a forced landing to a golf course.
Postaccident examination of the airplane’s engine revealed that the No. 3 cylinder sustained catastrophic 
damage, including heavy mechanical damage to the piston and separation of the exhaust valve, a portion 
of which was lodged under the intake valve. Numerous pieces of metal consistent with material from the 
No. 3 piston head were found in the oil sump. Given this information, it is likely that the loss of engine 
power was due to the failure of the No. 3 exhaust valve.
The engine manufacturer's maintenance manual recommended that this engine be overhauled at 1,500 
hours of operation or every 12 years, whichever occurred first. The maintenance manual also 
recommended that a borescope be used to inspect the engine’s cylinders during every 100-hour/annual 
inspection in conjunction with a compression test. The engine maintenance records listed the 
compression test results during previous annual inspections but did not indicate whether the cylinders 
had been inspected with a borescope. At the previous annual inspection, about 1 month before the 
accident, the engine total time was 1,769.1 hours. Additionally, the engine was manufactured about 37 
years prior to the accident and had not been overhauled. The investigation did not determine if the 
impending failure of the exhaust valve could have been detected and corrected had the borescope 
inspections been performed and/or the engine had been overhauled.  
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
