Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Eagle Mountain, Utah
Accident Number:
WPR18FA186
Date & Time:
June 28, 2018, 10:54 Local 
Registration:
N320MF
Aircraft:
Cessna 320
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Aerial observation
Analysis 
The pilot was conducting an aerial photography flight at a planned altitude of 7,255 ft over a level area 
just west of rising mountainous terrain. The planned flight was to accomplish 3 photo runs over the area. 
At the conclusion of the 3 runs, the pilot was to return to the airport located to the east for fuel. Onboard 
data indicated that at the conclusion of the second run traveling from west to east, the airplane made a 
shallow right turn to the southeast and continued toward mountainous terrain and in the general direction 
of the airport. After traveling over mountainous terrain, the airplane initiated a left turn at an altitude 
about 800 ft above the terrain. This turn was possibly performed to maneuver the airplane back to the 
northwest to the photo area and accomplish the final photo run. During the turn, the airplane's bank 
angle increased as the airplane climbed slightly and accelerated; the last recorded data showed the 
airplane at 177 knots groundspeed in an approximate 70° left bank. On site wreckage documentation 
revealed that the airplane collided with the terrain in a near vertical nose-down attitude suggesting that 
the airplane exceeded its critical angle of attack and aerodynamically stalled at an altitude too low for 
the pilot to recover from.
Examination revealed no anomalies with the airframe and engines that would have precluded normal 
operation, and damage signatures indicated that the engines were producing power at the time of the 
accident.
The pilot had several airspace violations in the year before the accident. A psychological evaluation 
conducted over 15 years before the accident, when the pilot first sought Federal Aviation Administration 
medical certification, indicated that the pilot had an "impulsive personality" and that he "sought 
excitement;" however, outside of these instances, there was no other information available that provided 
insight into the pilot's behavior or decision-making. It could not be determined whether the pilot's 
mental health contributed to this accident.
