Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Anchorage, Alaska
Accident Number:
ANC18LA051
Date & Time:
June 29, 2018, 13:07 Local 
Registration:
N7675D
Aircraft:
Piper PA18
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel starvation
Injuries:
1 Minor, 1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot stated that he and the pilot-rated passenger fueled the airplane from his private 
fuel tank at his floatplane slip before the flight and that the preflight inspection and engine run-up were 
normal. He was conducting a takeoff from the rear seat with a pilot-rated passenger in the front seat. 
When the airplane was between about 100 and 200 ft above ground level, the engine started to “sputter” 
and lose power. The pilot attempted to restore power by cycling the throttle to no avail. Realizing he 
would not be able to land on the water, he turned the airplane to land on a nearby gravel runway. He 
asked the pilot-rated passenger to check that the fuel selector valve was in the “on” position, and he 
responded that it was. He could not recall the impact attitude or the impact itself. The passenger’s 
statement corroborated the pilot’s statement, but he added that the airplane landed with a nose-high 
attitude and then banked right. Impact ground scars were evident across a gravel taxiway and a grassy 
area next to the runway. The airplane sustained substantial damage to the fuselage and wings.
The engine was found attached to the airframe and intact, and the fuel and oil lines were secure. 
Postaccident examination of the engine and fuel system revealed that there was corrosion on the top 
spark plugs, and no spark could be produced at the leads; however, these were likely caused by the 
airplane’s exposure to water with the engine cowling off during the 2 months after the accident. No fuel 
was present in the carburetor or the fuel line from the fuel strainer to the engine. The fuel tanks had 
sufficient fuel and no water or debris was found in fuel samples from the fuel system or from the pilot’s 
private fuel tank. One of the propeller blades was found straight with extensive trailing edge impact 
damage and dirt and grass dried onto the cambered face, indicative of no rotation at impact. No evidence 
of any preaccident mechanical malfunctions or failures were noted with the engine or airframe that 
would have precluded normal operation. Based on the evidence, it is likely that fuel was not reaching the 
engine, which led to fuel starvation and a subsequent total loss of engine power.
