Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Baldwin City, Kansas
Accident Number:
CEN18LA246
Date & Time:
June 30, 2018, 11:55 Local 
Registration:
N107BL
Aircraft:
Cessna 337
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Flight control sys malf/fail
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The commercial pilot was conducting a local flight to practice single-engine maneuvers. After taking off 
and climbing the airplane to 3,500 ft, he shut down the rear engine and feathered the propeller. After 
performing some turns and climbs, the pilot attempted to unfeather the propeller and restart the engine 
but was unsuccessful. He returned to the airport to set up for a single-engine approach. During the 
approach, the pilot realized that the flaps were no longer in the full-flap setting and that a landing on the 
grass runway was going to be close, so he chose to perform a go-around. However, as the pilot began to 
go around, he realized that the airplane could not maintain altitude. He maneuvered the airplane for an 
off-airport landing to a nearby field, during which the airplane struck small trees and a fence and 
sustained substantial damage to the left wing and fuselage.
 
The rear engine propeller had a remote hydraulic accumulator that assisted in unfeathering the propeller 
and was normally serviced to 120 pounds per square inch (psi). During an annual inspection that took 
place 4 flight hours before the accident flight, it was noted that the pressure was slightly low. During 
postaccident examination, the accumulator pressure was 85 psi. It is likely that a nitrogen leak occurred 
between the time the accumulator was last serviced and the time of the accident; however, the reason for 
the nitrogen leak could not be determined. Further, the flap switch was not holding position due to a loss 
of tension at the flap switch pivot, which is likely why the flaps were not in the full-flap setting as 
reported by the pilot. 
