Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Daytona Beach, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA18LA184
Date & Time:
July 5, 2018, 13:45 Local 
Registration:
N42SX
Aircraft:
Swearingen SX300
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal, 1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot and pilot-rated passenger were landing at the conclusion of a personal flight. The 
passenger stated that, during the landing approach, he noted that the wing flaps were down, and three 
green landing gear lights were illuminated; the airspeed was about 90 knots on final approach. Just 
before landing, he heard the angle of attack indicator alarm and knew that the airplane had stalled. The 
airplane landed hard and the left main landing gear collapsed. The pilot initially applied full power to 
take off again; however, he then reduced the throttle to idle and applied full braking. The airplane slid 
off the left side of the runway and collided with the precision approach path indicator lights. The 
airplane continued across the grass until the right wing dug into the ground; it then cartwheeled, came to 
rest upright, and caught fire. Bystanders assisted the pilot and passenger in opening the canopy and 
egressing the airplane; the pilot succumbed to burn injuries about one week after the accident. The 
passenger stated that there were no preimpact mechanical malfunctions with the airplane, and 
examination of the wreckage revealed no anomalies.
The circumstances of the accident are consistent with the pilot's failure to maintain adequate airspeed 
during the landing flare, which resulted in exceedance of the airplane's critical angle of attack and an 
aerodynamic stall. The subsequent hard landing resulted in a landing gear collapse and loss of 
directional control.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to maintain adequate airspeed during landing, which led to the airplane exceeding its 
critical angle-of-attack, experiencing an aerodynamic stall and hard landing, which resulted in a landing 
gear collapse, loss of directional control, and runway excursion.
