Page 1 of 14
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Hydaburg, Alaska
Accident Number:
ANC18FA053
Date & Time:
July 10, 2018, 08:35 Local 
Registration:
N3952B
Aircraft:
De Havilland DHC 3
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of visual reference
Injuries:
6 Serious, 4 Minor, 1 
None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 135: Air taxi & commuter - Non-scheduled
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot was conducting a commercial visual flight rules (VFR) flight transporting 10 
passengers from a remote fishing lodge. According to the pilot, while in level cruise flight about 1,100 ft 
mean sea level (msl) and as the flight progressed into a mountain pass, visibility decreased rapidly. In an 
attempt to turn around and return to VFR conditions, the pilot initiated a climbing right turn. Before 
completing the 180° right turn, he saw what he believed to be a body of water and became momentarily 
disoriented, so he leveled the wings. Shortly thereafter, he realized that the airplane was approaching an 
area of snow-covered mountainous terrain, so he applied full power and initiated a steep climb; the 
airspeed decayed, and the airplane collided with an area of rocky, rising terrain, which resulted in 
substantial damage to the wings and fuselage. 
The pilot reported no mechanical malfunctions or anomalies that would have precluded normal 
operation, and the examination of the airframe and engine revealed no evidence of mechanical 
malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation.
The weather forecast at the accident time included scattered clouds at 2,500 ft msl, overcast clouds at 
5,000 ft msl with cloud tops to 14,000 ft and clouds layered above that to flight level 250, and isolated 
broken clouds at 2,500 ft with light rain. AIRMET advisory SIERRA for "mountains obscured in 
clouds/precipitation" was valid at the time of the accident. Conditions were expected to deteriorate. 
Passenger interviews revealed that through the course of the flight, the airplane was operating in 
marginal visual meteorological conditions and occasional instrument meteorological conditions (IMC) 
with areas of precipitation, reduced visibility, obscuration, and, at times, little to no forward visibility. 
Thus, based on weather reports and forecasts, and the pilot's and passengers' statements, it is likely that 
the flight encountered IMC as it approached mountainous terrain and that the pilot then lost situational 
awareness.
