Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Wheatley, Arkansas
Accident Number:
CEN18FA263
Date & Time:
July 11, 2018, 06:30 Local 
Registration:
N8508P
Aircraft:
Air Tractor AT-602
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Low altitude operation/event
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 137: Agricultural
Analysis 
A witness reported that the commercial pilot departed on the agricultural application flight to spray a 40-
acre field about 5 miles from the airport. He reported that the pilot had loaded the airplane with 400 
gallons of chemical before the flight and that the airplane's fuel tanks were full. There were no witnesses 
to the accident. The wreckage was found in a wooded area between two open fields about 1/3 mile west 
of the application field. Examination of the accident site indicated that the airplane impacted the top of a 
berm in an approximate wings-level attitude. Flight control continuity could not be established from the 
flight controls to their respective attach points on the flight control surfaces due to impact and fire 
damage; however, all control separations were consistent with overload failure or fire damage. 
Examination of the engine and propeller revealed characteristics consistent with significant engine 
power at the time of impact. Examination revealed no anomalies and that would have precluded normal 
operation of the airframe or engine.
The airplane's wings-level impact attitude is not consistent with a loss of control, and there was no 
indication of a wire or tree strike either in the wreckage or in the area surrounding the accident site. 
Toxicology testing and autopsy of the pilot revealed no evidence of physiological impairment or 
incapacitation; therefore, the reason the pilot did not maintain clearance from terrain could not be 
determined.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to maintain clearance from terrain for reasons that could not be determined 
based on the available evidence.
