Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Plainville, Connecticut
Accident Number:
ERA18FA189
Date & Time:
July 12, 2018, 10:42 Local 
Registration:
N17DR
Aircraft:
Rutan Defiant
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot, who was one of the builders of the twin-engine, experimental, amateur-built airplane, 
was conducting a local flight in the airport traffic pattern. A wing-mounted camera captured the ground 
operations and accident flight. After seemingly normal engine start and runup checks, the pilot departed 
to the north, remaining in the airport traffic pattern for a subsequent landing. While over the runway 
threshold on landing approach, he initiated a go-around. The airplane climbed left of the runway 
centerline, then entered a steep, descending left turn at varying angles of bank, some exceeding 60ยบ. The 
airplane continued to descend in an erratic manner until it impacted the ground.
An examination of the aircraft systems and engines revealed no evidence of a preimpact anomaly or 
failure. There was ample fuel on board for the flight. The forward engine wooden propeller showed 
evidence of rotational damage. Although the aft engine propeller was generally undamaged, the crash 
dynamics and the aft mounting of the propeller assembly likely shielded it from damage during impact. 
Although conditions at the time of the accident were conducive to serious carburetor icing at glide 
power, an electronic engine monitor showed no evidence of a loss of engine power, nor did a sound 
spectrum study of the wing-mounted camera audio.
Autopsy and toxicology testing of the pilot revealed no evidence of physiological impairment or 
incapacitation, and the reason for the pilot's erratic and aggressive maneuvering after the go-around 
could not be determined.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's loss of airplane control during climb for reasons that could not be determined 
based on the available information.
