Page 1 of 11
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Deer Park, Washington
Accident Number:
WPR18FA195
Date & Time:
July 13, 2018, 10:21 Local 
Registration:
N24442
Aircraft:
Cessna 172
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Birdstrike
Injuries:
3 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The purpose of the flight was for the student pilot to make his first flight in his training program, with 
the flight instructor and an observer also onboard the airplane. There were no aggressive maneuvers 
planned during the flight. Radar data indicated that, following departure, the airplane flew about 25 
minutes making a series of benign turns. With the airplane maneuvering in a level attitude, configured at 
77 kts (ground speed), it suddenly made a sharp 90° right turn and rapidly descended; the last speed 
recorded was 117 kts. The airplane was in a steep dive as it approached the accident site and just before 
impact, the outboard wings broke off the airplane about the same time. 
Postaccident examinations revealed no anomalies with the airplane. Flight control system continuity 
could not be definitively confirmed due to the fragmentation of the wreckage, but the fractured control 
cables all showed signatures consistent with overload. 
Numerous pieces of the windscreen and swabs of the airframe were sent to the Smithsonian Institution's 
Feather Identification Lab. Found within the samples were a partial feather and the microscopic downy 
feather characters, which were consistent with an American white pelican, which has an average weight 
of 7.7 kg. There were many observations of American white pelicans reported near the area around the 
date of the accident. 
The airplane manufacturer’s recommended maneuvering speed was about 97 kts and abrupt control 
movements above that speed could impose excessive loads beyond the structural strength of the 
airplane. The airplane likely collided with an American white pelican resulting in a rapid descent that 
the flight instructor was unable to recover from before the airplane exceeded the manufacturer’s 
recommended maneuvering speed, which led to the exceedance of the airplane's structural strength 
capability and breaking up in-flight.  
