Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Salisbury, North Carolina
Accident Number:
WPR18LA194
Date & Time:
June 29, 2018, 16:03 Local 
Registration:
N8440F
Aircraft:
Piper PA32
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel related
Injuries:
3 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot departed with his passengers on a cross-country flight with the main and auxiliary fuel tanks at 
full capacity. About 2 hours and 18 minutes into the flight, the engine lost total power. The pilot was 
unable to restart the engine and declared an emergency. The controller provided vectors to a nearby 
airport, where the airplane landed hard, resulting in substantial damage.
First responders reported that they drained about 55 gallons of fuel from the airplane after the accident 
and an additional, unquantified amount spilled onto the ground; however, the fuel was drained before 
the airplane could be examined and the amount of fuel onboard and its distribution at the time of the 
accident could not be confirmed. Data retrieved from an onboard engine monitoring system showed 
erratic fuel flow indications concurrent with a sudden decrease in exhaust gas temperatures. These 
erratic fuel flow indications suggest the possibility that the transducer was pulling in air due to an 
interruption in fuel flow, which may have been the result of fuel starvation or an introduction of air 
within the fuel system upstream of the transducer. The fuel lines were not tested, as they had been cut by 
recovery personnel. 
A postaccident examination of the engine revealed no fuel in the line between the engine-driven fuel 
pump and the fuel servo, which typically captures and retains unused fuel destined for the engine. A 
subsequent engine run revealed no anomalies of the engine. Given the available information, it is likely 
that the loss of engine power was the result of fuel starvation; however, whether the fuel starvation was 
the result of fuel mismanagement or an introduction of air into the fuel system could not be determined.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
