Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
La Porte, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN18FA267
Date & Time:
July 15, 2018, 09:00 Local 
Registration:
N3135J
Aircraft:
Kolb Twinstar
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot, who had recently purchased the experimental amateur-built light-sport airplane, and a 
passenger were conducting a local flight in day visual meteorological conditions. Witnesses stated that 
the airplane departed and remained in the airport traffic pattern. While the airplane was on approach to 
the runway for landing, witnesses heard the engine power decrease then and immediately increase. The 
airplane appeared to enter an aerodynamic stall from a low altitude and impact terrain in a nose-low 
attitude. Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed no evidence of mechanical malfunctions or 
failures that would have precluded normal operations. Based on available information and examination 
of the wreckage, it is likely that the pilot did not maintain sufficient airspeed while maneuvering during 
the approach for landing. The airplane subsequently exceeded its critical angle of attack and entered an 
aerodynamic stall at an altitude too low for recovery. 
The pilot's logbook was not located during the investigation, and the pilot's experience level in 
experimental and light-sport airplanes was not determined. Additionally, it could not be determined if 
the pilot had obtained transition training in the accident airplane, which was classified as a low-
inertia/high-drag airplane. Low-inertia/high drag airplanes are particularly susceptible to unintentional 
aerodynamic stalls due to their margin between low cruise speed and stall speed and their tendency to 
experience significant airspeed decay with increased load factor (such as during a turn).
Toxicology revealed that the pilot was using pain and allergy medications at the time of the 
accident; however, whether the pilot had impairing levels of either of the medications around the time of 
the accident or whether the potentially-impairing medications degraded his ability to safely operate the 
airplane could not be determined.
Probable Cause and Findings
