Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Rosamond, California
Accident Number:
WPR18LA196
Date & Time:
July 14, 2018, 10:00 Local 
Registration:
N43SJ
Aircraft:
Cassutt IIIM
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was departing in his experimental, amateur-built airplane configured for aerial racing. He 
reported that when the airplane entered its initial climb and was about 50 ft above ground level, the 
engine performance reduced by about 300 rpm. The pilot attempted to continue the takeoff to complete a 
circuit in the airport traffic pattern. A witness saw the airplane turn left, and the nose immediately 
dropped and impacted the ground, followed by the right side of the airplane. The airplane sustained 
substantial damage to the forward fuselage and right wing. It is likely that, while the pilot was 
maneuvering at low altitude after the partial loss of engine power, he failed to maintain adequate 
airspeed, which resulted in the airplane exceeding its critical angle of attack and a subsequent 
accelerated stall. 
Postaccident examination of the engine and most of the accessories did not reveal any preimpact 
mechanical anomalies. However, a teardown of the carburetor showed multiple discrepancies, the most 
notable of which was a loose primary venturi. This condition is likely to have caused the partial loss of 
engine power during takeoff due to the delivery of inconsistent vacuum pressure and a disruption in fuel 
flow. An airworthiness directive (AD) issued 20 years before the accident required that the venturi be 
inspected at each annual, 100-hour, or conditional inspection. It is unknown if this AD was complied 
with, as the pilot/owner did not possess any records that showed the carburetor's maintenance history. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
