Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Tolani Lake, Arizona
Accident Number:
WPR18LA197
Date & Time:
July 12, 2018, 03:05 Local 
Registration:
N617MM
Aircraft:
Beech 90
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Inflight upset
Injuries:
3 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Positioning
Analysis 
The pilot reported that the airplane was climbing in instrument meteorological conditions with light rain 
and with the autopilot engaged. The conditions were smooth with no turbulence and no known icing, 
although he had engaged all anti-icing systems. The airplane was climbing at 600 ft per minute at an 
airspeed of 130 kts from 17,000 ft to 19,000 ft. The pilot reported that he was working on an iPad when 
it stopped functioning. He said he was resetting the iPad when there was a hard control input to the left 
as the airplane was passing through about 17,500 ft. The airplane rolled left and pitched down as he 
attempted to regain control. The pilot reported the autopilot was fighting his control inputs during the 
event, and he disengaged it to affect the recovery. Onboard data equipment showed a steady increase in 
airplane pitch attitude and a steady decrease in airspeed before the upset. The airplane spiraled down, 
losing about 4,000 ft of altitude before the pilot regained control. The pilot manually flew the airplane to 
its destination and landed safely. The wings were substantially damaged.
Postaccident examination of the autopilot revealed no mechanical anomalies that would have precluded 
normal operation. The autopilot computer was removed and examined with no anomalies noted. Thus, 
the reason for the autopilot deviation could not be determined.  It is likely that the pilot was distracted 
with resetting the iPad and thus did not adequately monitor the autopilot, which led to his delayed 
awareness of the autopilot deviation.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
