Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Orient, Ohio
Accident Number:
CEN18LA275
Date & Time:
July 12, 2018, 16:25 Local 
Registration:
N619NT
Aircraft:
WHITTMAN Tailwind
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel starvation
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The private pilot, who was the owner of the experimental amateur-built airplane, was receiving 
instruction from a flight instructor during a familiarization flight when the airplane experienced a total 
loss of engine power while leveling off at 2,000 ft mean sea level. The flight instructor attempted to 
restart the engine by turning on the carburetor heat and the fuel pump but was not successful. The flight 
instructor then performed a forced landing to a field, during which the airplane sustained substantial 
damage to the fuselage.
The pilot stated that the airplane was equipped with an unconventional mixture control that was 
improperly used during flight and caused the engine to quit running. Postaccident examination of the 
airplane revealed the mixture control had been modified from its original configuration; the full-forward 
position of the mixture control would provide a full lean mixture, opposite of the original configuration 
in which a full-forward position would have provided a full rich mixture. Thus, it is likely that fuel was 
inadvertently cut off during flight. There were no other mechanical malfunctions or anomalies reported 
that would have precluded normal operation of the airplane. The pilot recommended that "[b]etter and 
more thorough cockpit familiarization would have prevented the accident from occurring."
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's and the flight instructor's incorrect use of the modified mixture control, which resulted in a 
loss of engine power due to fuel starvation and a forced landing. Also causal was the inadequate systems 
knowledge of the experimental, amateur-built airplane by the pilot and the flight instructor.
