Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Rockford, Ohio
Incident Number:
CEN18IA273
Date & Time:
July 12, 2018, 16:47 Local 
Registration:
N2483J
Aircraft:
Cessna A188B
Aircraft Damage:
Minor
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 137: Agricultural
Analysis 
The commercial pilot of the aerial application flight reported that the airplane was at 350 ft above 
ground level when the engine started running roughly and then lost total power. He executed a forced 
landing to a field, which resulted in minor damage to the right wing. 
A review of the engine maintenance logbooks indicated that the accident occurred 107.6 hours after all 
six cylinders were replaced. The engine teardown examination revealed a large hole in the crankcase 
near the No. 2 cylinder. The crankcase bearing supports exhibited signs consistent with bearing shift. 
The No. 2 and No. 3 lock tabs exhibited elongation, and all bearing support mating surfaces exhibited 
varying amounts of fretting, with the No. 2 and No. 3 surfaces displaying the most fretting. The No. 3 
bearing had shifted a significant amount, and part of the bearing was separated. The No. 2 connecting 
rod bearings exhibited a significant amount of thermal damage consistent with heat distress. The No. 2 
connecting rod was separated from its journal and exhibited damage consistent with lubrication distress. 
The No. 2 piston was separated from the connecting rod and remained in the cylinder. 
It is likely that, when all six cylinders were replaced, the engine's through-bolts did not have sufficient 
clamping force, which resulted in movement of the crankcase halves as evidenced by the fretting on the 
crankcase bearing supports. This led to the crankcase main bearings shifting, which resulted in oil 
starvation to the No. 2 connecting rod journal, failure of the No. 2 connecting rod, and the subsequent 
total loss of engine power.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this incident to be:
