Page 1 of 18
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Miami, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA18FA194
Date & Time:
July 17, 2018, 12:59 Local 
Registration:
N16281
Aircraft:
Piper PA34
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Midair collision
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
A low-wing multiengine airplane departed the airport on an evaluation flight in the local training area 
with a commercial pilot candidate and designated pilot examiner onboard. The student pilot and a flight 
instructor onboard a high-wing airplane were returning to the same airport on a cross-country 
instructional flight. About 6 minutes after the low-wing airplane departed, the airplanes collided nearly 
straight-on about 1,500 ft mean sea level and 9 miles northwest of the airport. At the time, the low-wing 
airplane was clear of the Class D airspace and no longer communicating with air traffic control (ATC). 
One of the pilots in the high-wing airplane had contacted ATC just before the collision. The controller 
acknowledged the transmission and issued a traffic advisory, but no further communications were 
received. Neither airplane was equipped with a traffic information system, nor were they required to be.
An aircraft performance and cockpit visibility study revealed that both airplanes would have remained 
relatively small, slow-moving objects in each other's windows until about 12 seconds before the 
collision, and subsequently grown in size suddenly; however, it is likely that none of the pilots saw the 
other airplane given that radar data does not indicate that either airplane performed evasive maneuvers 
to avoid the collision No preimpact mechanical malfunctions were identified with either airplane. 
Toxicology testing identified low levels of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and metabolites in the 
high-wing flight instructor's blood and urine. Their presence indicates that the instructor had used 
marijuana at some time before the accident, but it is unlikely that the psychoactive effects of THC 
remained or contributed to the accident.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The failure of both pilots in both airplanes to see and avoid the other airplane as they 
converged nearly head-on at the same altitude.
