Page 1 of 14
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Willow, Alaska
Accident Number:
ANC18FA055
Date & Time:
July 18, 2018, 19:00 Local 
Registration:
N9878R
Aircraft:
De Havilland DHC-2
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
1 Fatal, 2 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 135: Air taxi & commuter - Non-scheduled
Analysis 
The pilot was conducting an on-demand air taxi flight in a float-equipped airplane from a seaplane base 
on a public lake to a remote lakeside home, with a passenger and her young son. The passenger brought 
cargo to transport as well, including an unexpected 800 lbs of mortar bags. Witnesses who labored to 
push the airplane out after loading reported that the airplane appeared very aft heavy and the pilot said 
he would offload "cement blocks" if he could not take off. A review of witness videos revealed that the 
pilot attempted one takeoff using only 3/4 of the available waterway, then step taxied around the lake 
and performed a step-taxi takeoff, again not using the full length of the lake. The airplane eventually 
lifted off, and barely climbed over trees on the south end of the lake, before descending and impacting 
terrain. 
A home surveillance video that captured the airplane seconds before the crash revealed that 3 seconds 
before ground impact, the estimated altitude of the airplane was 115 ft above ground level (agl) and the 
groundspeed was about 64 miles per hour (mph), which was low and much slower than normal climb 
speed (80 mph). As the airplane banked to the left to turn on course, it rolled through 90° likely 
experiencing an aerodynamic stall. Analysis of the engine rpm sound revealed that the engine was 
operating near maximum continuous power up until impact, and a postaccident examination of the 
airframe and engine revealed no evidence of mechanical malfunctions or failures that would have 
precluded normal operation.
A calculation performed by investigators postaccident revealed the airplane's estimated gross weight at 
the time of the accident was 75 lbs over the approved maximum gross takeoff weight, and the airplane's 
estimated center of gravity was 1.76 inches aft of the rear limit.
The pilot had been recently hired by the operator and he flew his first commercial flight in the same 
make and model, float-equipped airplane the week before the accident. He had accumulated 12.9 flight 
hours, and 13 sea landings/takeoffs in the accident model airplane since being hired as a part-time pilot.
