Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Fort Rice, North Dakota
Accident Number:
CEN18FA277
Date & Time:
July 17, 2018, 14:23 Local 
Registration:
N24515
Aircraft:
Cessna 152
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Aerial observation
Analysis 
The pilot was conducting his second low-level aerial photography flight that day; the pilot would take 
the photographs through the left window of the airplane. A review of surveillance data showed the 
airplane depart from the airport and fly to the target areas for aerial photographs. After the pilot 
completed the photography work over the target areas, the airplane traveled over a river. The airplane 
then made several low-level turns over the river, most of which were to the left. The last recorded data 
point showed that the airplane at 1,700 ft. msl and a groundspeed of 49 knots. The airplane wreckage 
was found partially submerged in the river. The photographs from the pilot's camera were extracted, and 
the last several images showed a fish in the river. It was undetermined why the pilot was taking photos 
of the fish.
Postaccident examination of the airplane and engine revealed no anomalies that would have precluded 
normal operation of the airplane.
Given the temperature and dew point at the time of the accident, the airplane was susceptible to serious 
carburetor icing at glide power settings. The airplane was equipped with a carburetor temperature 
system that was installed on the right side of the cockpit. The system had an "ice zone" warning light 
that illuminated before carburetor ice could form. It is likely that, during the low-level turns to the left 
over the river, the pilot was focusing on taking photographs through the airplane's left window and did 
not see that the ice zone light had illuminated. After illumination of this light, a pilot was expected to 
apply carburetor heat. However, the airplane's carburetor heat was found in the off position. Thus, given 
the ambient conditions at the time of the accident, it is likely that carburetor ice formed and resulted in a 
loss of engine power. Because the pilot's attention was diverted while taking photos of a fish in the river, 
he likely did not notice the loss of airspeed, which resulted in the airplane exceeding its critical angle of 
attack, and a subsequent low-level aerodynamic stall.
Before the accident flight, a mechanic who assisted the pilot with refueling the airplane observed that 
