Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Vinton, Iowa
Accident Number:
CEN18LA278
Date & Time:
July 17, 2018, 13:45 Local 
Registration:
N5553X
Aircraft:
Aero Commander S2R
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 137: Agricultural
Analysis 
The pilot stated that on final approach, he slowed the airplane for landing. When the airplane 
crossed the end of the runway, he reduced the throttle back, but the airplane would not slow, so 
he executed a go-around. During the go-around, the engine lost partial power and would not 
respond to the pilot’s throttle inputs. The pilot then executed a forced landing in a cornfield, 
and the airplane sustained substantial damage to the fuselage and empennage. 
Examination of the throttle control system revealed that the interlocking teeth mechanisms 
between the carburetor lever stop assembly and the throttle control lever were worn and lost 
integrity to interconnect. The teeth on the lever stop assembly were severely worn. Thus, it is 
likely that during the accident flight, when the pilot actuated the throttle control lever, the 
throttle control system failed when the worn-down teeth on the lever stop would not engage 
the teeth on the mating throttle control lever. This caused a loss of the throttle lever input, 
which allowed the engine to enter a low rpm condition. The material examination also noted a 
mismatch in hardness of the associated parts; although the hardness values were typical for the 
respective part compositions and microstructures, the mismatch in hardness lent itself to 
higher wear rates. A review of the airplane’s maintenance records revealed that the carburetor 
had been removed for overhaul and reinstalled 135 hours before the accident. It is likely that 
maintenance personnel reinstalled the worn parts without thoroughly inspecting them.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
