Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Hyrum, Utah
Accident Number:
WPR18LA199
Date & Time:
July 19, 2018, 09:50 Local 
Registration:
N70DD
Aircraft:
Cub Crafters CC19
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel exhaustion
Injuries:
1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot was relocating the airplane to the owner’s private ranch. The pilot stated that, 
before the flight, he ordered fuel for the airplane; however, when the fuel truck arrived, he checked the 
fuel levels using the fuel quantity sight gauges inside the airplane and “realized it was full,” so he 
declined to have the airplane refueled. The pilot stated that he did not visually verify the fuel levels in 
each fuel tank or use a dipstick. The pilot added that, before the flight, he was dealing with a 
malfunctioning hangar door when he received a telephone call from work. After the call ended, he 
conducted his preflight inspection of the airplane and again attempted to close the hangar door. When 
the pilot attempted to start the engine, the battery was dead, so he charged it, started the engine, and then 
took off.
About 45 minutes after departure, during cruise flight over mountainous terrain, the engine began to lose 
power. As the pilot turned the electric fuel pump on, he noticed a slight increase in power; however, 
shortly thereafter, the engine lost all power. The pilot initiated an off-airport landing to a nearby open 
area; however, when he realized that the airplane would be unable to reach it, he maneuvered toward 
another suitable landing area. During the landing, the airplane impacted trees and terrain before it came 
to rest upright, which resulted in substantial damage to the right wing and fuselage.
First responders and wreckage recovery company personnel independently confirmed that no fuel was 
recovered from the wing tanks. Recovery personnel also reported that there was no fuel in the engine 
inlet fuel line during disassembly. Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed no evidence of any 
preexisting mechanical malfunctions or failures with the engine or fuel system, including the fuel 
quantity sight gauges, that would have precluded normal operation.
It is possible that, due to the distractions that the pilot reported experiencing while preparing for the 
flight, he did not correctly read the fuel quantity sight gauges during the preflight inspection. It is likely 
that the pilot departed with insufficient fuel onboard to complete the flight, which led to a loss of engine 
power due to fuel exhaustion.  
