Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Blum, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN18LA287
Date & Time:
July 21, 2018, 11:55 Local 
Registration:
N3611Y
Aircraft:
Cessna 210C
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel related
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot stated that she was about 20 minutes into a cross-country flight with the airplane at a cruise 
altitude of 3,500 ft mean sea level (msl) when the engine started to run roughly. The pilot suspected 
vapor lock because of the hot weather conditions and attempted to restore engine power. She switched 
the fuel selector positions from the right to the left fuel tank, but when the roughness worsened, she 
switched the selector back to the right tank. She selected the boost pump to LOW and then HIGH, and 
retarded throttle control, all of which had no effect on engine operation. The engine began to lose power 
rapidly and then quit; the propeller windmilled. 
The pilot began an approach for a forced landing on a field with flaps at 30° and the landing gear 
retracted. She said that it would take her about 3 minutes to manually pump the landing gear down and 
that she did not have enough time to lower the landing gear due to the airplane's altitude. The landing on 
the field was "firm," and the airplane quickly slid to a stop and sustained substantial damage during the 
gear-up landing.
The airplane emergency checklist for a forced landing after a complete engine failure required extension 
of the landing gear if the landing surface is smooth and hard and does not mention the need to extend the 
landing gear using manual extension; the windmilling engine would provide power to the hydraulic 
pump to operate the flaps and also to extend the landing gear normally. Postaccident examination of the 
field showed that the surface was hard and in good condition to perform a landing; however, the pilot 
stated that she could not determine this when she was 2 miles from the field when she decided to land 
there. 
The density altitude near the departure airport was about 3,500 ft msl, which would have required full 
rich fuel mixture at takeoff.
Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed that the left and right fuel tanks were each about half 
full, the throttle and propeller controls were in the full forward positions, and the mixture control was 
