Page 1 of 12
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Burnet, Texas
Accident Number:
WPR18FA201
Date & Time:
July 21, 2018, 09:15 Local 
Registration:
N47HL
Aircraft:
Douglas DC3
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
6 Serious, 1 Minor, 6 
None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation
Analysis 
According to the copilot, before takeoff, he and the pilot had briefed that the copilot would conduct the 
takeoff for the planned cross-country flight and be the pilot flying and that the pilot would be the pilot 
monitoring. The accident flight was the copilot's first takeoff in the accident airplane with it at or near its 
maximum gross weight. The pilot reported that he taxied the airplane onto the runway and locked the 
tailwheel in place and that the copilot then took over the controls. About 13 seconds after the start of the 
takeoff roll, the airplane veered slightly right, and the copilot counteracted with left rudder input. The 
airplane then swerved left, and shortly after the pilot took control of the airplane. The airplane briefly 
became airborne; the pilot stated that he knew the airplane was slow as he tried to ease it back over to 
the runway and set it back down. Subsequently, he felt the shudder “of a stall,” and the airplane rolled 
left and impacted the ground, the right main landing gear collapsed, and the left wing struck the ground. 
After the airplane came to a stop, a postimpact fire ensued. All the airplane occupants egressed through 
the aft left door.
Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed no evidence of any mechanical malfunctions or 
failures with the flight controls or tailwheel. Both outboard portions of the of the aluminum shear pin 
within the tailwheel strut assembly were sheared off, consistent with side load forces on the tailwheel 
during the impact sequence.
The copilot obtained his pilot-in-command type rating and his checkout for the accident airplane about 2 
months and 2 weeks before the accident, respectively. The copilot had conducted two flights in the 
accident airplane with a unit instructor before the accident. The instructor reported that, during these 
flights, he noted that the copilot had directional control issues; made "lazy inputs, similar to those for 
small airplanes"; tended to go to the right first; and seemed to overcorrect to the left by leaving control 
inputs in for too long. He added that, after the checkout was completed, the copilot could take off and 
land without assistance; however, he had some concern about the his reaction time to a divergence of 
