Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Baton Rouge, Louisiana
Accident Number:
CEN18LA285
Date & Time:
July 20, 2018, 14:30 Local 
Registration:
N327BK
Aircraft:
Smith Aerostar601
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The mechanic who maintained the airplane reported that, on the morning of the accident, the right 
engine would not start due to water contamination in the fuel system. The commercial pilot and 
mechanic purged the fuel tanks, flushed the fuel system, and cleaned the left engine fuel injector 
nozzles. After the maintenance work, they completed engine ground runs for each engine with no 
anomalies noted. Subsequently, the pilot ordered new fuel from the local fixed-based operator to 
complete a maintenance test flight. The pilot stated that he completed a preflight inspection, followed by 
engine run-ups for each engine with no anomalies noted and then departed with one passenger onboard. 
Immediately after takeoff, the right engine stopped producing full power, and the airplane would not 
maintain altitude. No remaining runway was left to land, so the pilot conducted a forced landing to a 
field about 1 mile from the runway; the airplane landed hard and came to rest upright. 
Postaccident examination revealed no water contamination in the engines. Examination of the airplane 
revealed numerous instances of improper and inadequate maintenance of the engines and fuel system. 
The fuel system contained corrosion debris, and minimal fuel was found in the lines to the fuel servo. 
Although maintenance was conducted on the airplane on the morning of the accident, the right engine 
fuel injectors nozzles were not removed during the maintenance procedures; therefore, it is likely that 
the fuel flow volume was not measured. 
It is likely that the corrosion debris in the fuel system resulted when the water was recently purged from 
the fuel system. The contaminants were likely knocked loose during the subsequent engine runs and 
attempted takeoff, which subsequently blocked the fuel lines and starved the right engine of available 
fuel. 
Probable Cause and Findings
