Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Patriot, Indiana
Accident Number:
CEN18FA282
Date & Time:
July 19, 2018, 17:00 Local 
Registration:
N228LC
Aircraft:
Fisher Celebrity
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Aircraft structural failure
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot was conducting a personal flight in  his recently-purchased experimental, 
amateur-built biplane when the airplane experienced an in-flight breakup and subsequently impacted a 
cornfield. There were no witnesses to the accident. The upper and lower left wings were attached to each 
other but were separated from the fuselage. Part of the lower right wing was located with the wreckage 
but not attached to the fuselage. Additional parts of the upper and lower right wings were found 
scattered throughout an area between 400 yards to 800 yards west of the impact area, and other parts of 
the wings were found about 80 yards from the wreckage; however, the majority of the wing structure 
was not found.
The right wing attachment fittings displayed fractures intersecting the inboard wing spar attachment bolt 
hole. The fracture features for each attachment fitting were rough and matte gray in appearance, 
consistent with ductile overstress fracture and with upward bending of the wing at the attachment 
location. The outboard end of the attachment fitting piece for the aft spar was also bent aft relative to the 
inboard end, consistent with the entire upper and lower right wings folding upward and rearward, 
bending and separating from the airplane. Because this airplane is a biplane, the upward bending of the 
lower wing attachment was secondary to a primary failure elsewhere, the location of which could not be 
determined due to the fact that a majority of the wing structure was unrecovered. There was no evidence 
of any preexisting damage on the wing spar attachment fittings.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
An in-flight separation of the right wing due to upward and rearward bending that led to an 
overstress fracture. The reason for the upward and rearward bending could not be determined 
