Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Sheboygan, Wisconsin
Accident Number:
WPR18FA200
Date & Time:
July 20, 2018, 16:04 Local 
Registration:
N747J
Aircraft:
De Havilland DH112 VENOM
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
1 Fatal, 2 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was conducting a formation training flight consisting of two airplanes; the accident airplane 
was in the No. 2 position. The airplane took off about 8 seconds behind the lead (No. 1 position) 
airplane. Witnesses described the airplane's takeoff as sluggish and indicated that the airplane's wings 
rocked back and forth shortly after lifting off. The witnesses' testimony was consistent with one witness' 
video recording, which showed the airplane climbing away from the runway and making a shallow left 
turn. As the airplane passed the witness' position, the engine sound decreased and rapidly increased. The 
airplane reached an altitude of about 200 ft above the ground before descending and impacting a farm 
structure. Another video captured the airplane descending in a slightly nose-up and wings-level attitude 
before impact. The flaps and landing gear both appeared retracted in that video.
No preimpact anomalies with the airframe and engine were found that would have precluded normal 
operation of the airplane. Signatures consistent with circumferential rub marks within the turbine were 
identified. Although the rate of rotation at the time of impact could not be determined, the retraction of 
the landing gear at a normal rate showed that the engine was likely producing some power at that time.
One of the witnesses to the accident was a pilot with experience in the accident make and model. He 
described the engine powering the airplane as "high airflow and thrust" and indicated that the engine 
could experience a compressor stall when operating at a high angle of attack and a high-power setting. 
He also stated that the airplane could get into a low energy state if an engine failure occurred and that 
the airplane would normally accelerate "very quickly" if it leveled off at 200 ft. 
The witness accounts of the accident airplane's wings rocking back and forth were consistent with the 
airplane encountering the wake turbulence of the lead airplane. Wake turbulence can disrupt airflow to 
the engine of a trailing airplane. The final seconds of the witness' video showed the pilot controlling the 
airplane during the climb to 200 ft, after which the airplane began descending. Thus, the wake 
turbulence from the lead airplane likely disrupted airflow to the engine and caused a compressor stall 
and a partial loss of engine power, which resulted in the airplane's inability to continue to climb.
