Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Oregon, Wisconsin
Accident Number:
GAA18CA432
Date & Time:
July 19, 2018, 14:00 Local 
Registration:
N9267H
Aircraft:
Piper PA28
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Runway excursion
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
According to the pilot receiving instruction, during instrument training, she and the flight instructor 
noted that the left brake was less effective than the right brake during landing. Following the training, 
the pilot receiving instruction returned to her home airport, and during landing on the wet, grass runway, 
she executed a go-around because there was insufficient runway to safely stop the airplane. During the 
second landing, the airplane touched down with about two-thirds of the 2,600-ft-long runway remaining. 
During the landing roll, the pilot receiving instruction ensured that the throttle was in the idle position, 
and she retracted the flaps and applied aft pressure to the yoke. She applied the foot brakes and then the 
hand brake and again noted that the left brake was less effective than the right brake, and the airplane 
continued to slide on the wet grass. The airplane overran the runway and impacted a drainage culvert. 
Subsequently, the right wing struck a barn, and the left wing struck a trailer.
The airplane sustained substantial damage to both wing's spars and ribs.
According to the Federal Aviation Administration aviation safety inspector who examined the airplane, 
there was a pool of hydraulic fluid on the ground that appeared to be consistent with an O-ring failure or 
displacement. He affirmed that, although degraded, the brake would still have been functional but would 
have required more input by the pilot to build pressure within the brake line. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's improper decision to take off with a known brake malfunction, which resulted in a collision 
with a barn during landing on a wet runway. 
