Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Charlotte, North Carolina
Accident Number:
DCA18CA251
Date & Time:
July 23, 2018, 15:38 Local 
Registration:
N918DE
Aircraft:
Mcdonnell Douglas MD88
Aircraft Damage:
None
Defining Event:
Turbulence encounter
Injuries:
1 Serious, 1 Minor, 
144 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 121: Air carrier - Scheduled
Analysis 
On July 23, 2018, about 1538 eastern daylight time, Delta Air Lines flight 2133, a McDonnell Douglas 
MD-88, N918DE, encountered turbulence during descent into Charlotte Douglas International Airport 
(KCLT), Charlotte, North Carolina. Of the 146 passengers and crew onboard, one flight attendant 
received serious injuries and one received minor injuries. The airplane was not damaged. The regularly 
scheduled domestic passenger flight was operated under the provisions of 14 Code of Federal 
Regulations Part 121 from Atlanta-Hartsfield International Airport (KATL), Atlanta, Georgia, to KCLT.
The captain was the pilot monitoring and first officer was the pilot flying. According to the flight crew, 
there were thunderstorms along the entire route that required them to deviate around multiple cells. The 
seat belt sign was on the entire flight and the weather radar was on. As the flight approached KCLT, the 
captain called the lead flight attendant (FA) and requested that the FAs complete their final walkthrough 
and be seated for the remainder of the flight, since he expected it to be bumpy during the arrival. As they 
were deviating around convective weather, the flight entered a cloud and encountered severe turbulence 
with heavy rain. The autopilot disconnected and the airplane dropped abruptly to the left. The first 
officer maintained positive manual control throughout the event and the crew estimated the turbulence 
lasted about 10 seconds. The captain immediately contacted the cabin and was informed that two FAs 
were injured.
After receiving the captain’s call to prepare for landing early, the three FAs immediately began their 
final walkthroughs.  Two FAs were in the aisle when the turbulence occurred. Both FAs were thrown 
into the air and then onto the floor. One FA had injured her back and was helped into a passenger seat 
for the remainder of the flight.  The other FA injured her knees but was able to continue her duties for 
the remainder of the flight.  The captain declared a medical emergency and requested that emergency 
personnel meet the airplane at the gate.  Upon arrival, both FAs were transported to the hospital where 
one was diagnosed with a fractured vertebrae.
