Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Great Falls, Montana
Accident Number:
GAA18CA438
Date & Time:
July 22, 2018, 09:15 Local 
Registration:
N7845V
Aircraft:
Mooney M20E
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Landing gear not configured
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The pilot reported that they were conducting a "familiarization/instructional flight" in the retractable-
gear airplane and that this was his first flight with the instructor. 
After practicing commercial maneuvers, they entered the traffic pattern, and the instructor wanted to 
acquaint himself with the "Johnson bar"-style landing gear system. The "Johnson bar" (manually 
operated retraction/extension handle) is pulled up to extend the landing gear and pushed down to retract 
the landing gear. The instructor then pushed the Johnson bar down in what he thought was the landing 
gear extended position. The pilot added that, although he twice verified that the landing gear was 
extended, the airplane landed with the landing gear retracted. 
The airplane sustained substantial damage to the fuselage.
The flight instructor reported that the flight was briefed as a "familiarization" flight because he was 
unfamiliar with the airplane. He added that the pilot had time in the airplane, and the intent was for him 
to become familiar with the performance and limitations of the airplane before he began conducting 
commercial training for the pilot. He added that he became distracted with the operation of the flaps and 
did not verify the landing gear position indicator lights located on the left side of the cockpit. He also 
added that he did not hear the gear warning horn.
The pilot and flight instructor reported that there were no preaccident mechanical failures or 
malfunctions with the airplane that would have precluded normal operation.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
