Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Cleveland, Tennessee
Accident Number:
ERA18LA199
Date & Time:
July 26, 2018, 16:48 Local 
Registration:
N1311S
Aircraft:
Cessna 182
Aircraft Damage:
None
Defining Event:
AC/prop/rotor contact w person
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
After completing a personal flight with his wife, the private pilot secured the engine by placing the 
mixture control in the idle cut-off position. Based on physical evidence observed after the accident, he 
likely moved the ignition switch toward the off position and removed the key. The pilot's wife indicated 
that, after they performed local errands and returned to the airport, the pilot was performing his preflight 
inspection of the airplane with the ignition key in his pocket. Although airport security video did not 
capture the accident sequence and the pilot's wife, who was by the airplane's right cabin door, did not 
see her husband move the propeller, she heard the propeller move and the engine starting or trying to 
start. The pilot likely slightly moved the propeller and the engine briefly started; the propeller then 
rotated and fatally injured the pilot. The engine did not sustain operation, and the propeller ceased 
rotating.
Postaccident examination of the 42-year-old ignition switch revealed that it appeared to be in the off 
position when observed visually from the pilot's seat, but its actual selected position was more toward 
the right magneto position. The switch and key were determined to be slightly misaligned with the 
instrument panel placard markings. On- and off-airframe operational testing of the ignition switch in the 
as-found position revealed the right magneto was hot, or not grounded. In addition, examination of the 
cut surfaces of the key notches revealed relatively smooth and reflective surface features consistent with 
a worn surface on the flank of the notch adjacent to the key retention ridge and on the tip end of the 
shank opposite the notched side. Examination of the key cylinder revealed an area with a smooth and 
reflective surface consistent with wear on the lower side of the key slot. The location and shape of the 
worn area was consistent with wear contact with the tip of the key as it was inserted and removed. The 
key could be removed from the switch in any of the five positions due to the wear of the switch's 
internal components, contrary to its intended function that would retain the key in any position except 
the off position. Although the switch manufacturer tested all new switches to ensure this functionality 
when new, that test is not specified to be performed at any time as part of any inspection or checklist by 
the switch manufacturer, airframe manufacturer, or Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 43 
Appendix D.
