Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Alexandria, Minnesota
Accident Number:
CEN18FA297
Date & Time:
July 28, 2018, 19:20 Local 
Registration:
N85506
Aircraft:
Aeronca 7AC
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Low altitude operation/event
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot was conducting a personal flight in the airplane. Multiple witnesses reported seeing the 
airplane flying at a low altitude and track data recovered from the pilot's mobile phone revealed that he 
had flown the airplane at an altitude that was less than 50 ft above the ground for most of the flight over 
and near a lake. One of the witnesses reported that the pilot would often overfly his house at a low 
altitude. The airplane subsequently collided with power lines over a road and impacted terrain.
 
Postaccident examination of the airplane and engine revealed no evidence of preimpact mechanical 
malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation. The accident occurred during 
daylight hours and in visual meteorological conditions that included a clear sky and a 10-mile surface 
visibility. The position of the sun relative to the airplane's final flightpath would not have hindered the 
pilot's ability to see and avoid the power lines. Thus, the airplane struck the power lines because of the 
pilot's intentional low-altitude flight.
 
Postmortem toxicology testing identified 0.029 gm/dl and 0.053 gm/dl of ethanol in the pilot's blood and 
vitreous specimens, respectively. The reported levels were consistent with recent ingestion of alcohol by 
the pilot. Even at low levels, ethanol can affect judgment and decision-making as well as impair the 
psychomotor functioning necessary for safe flight. However, in this case, the pilot had a habit of flying 
in a reckless manner at low altitudes. As a result, the investigation was unable to determine if the effects 
of the likely ingested alcohol contributed to the accident.
 
