Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Matthews, North Carolina
Accident Number:
ERA18LA202
Date & Time:
July 26, 2018, 19:00 Local 
Registration:
N1193Y
Aircraft:
Cessna 150
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Miscellaneous/other
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The student pilot was conducting a local, solo flight. He reported that all ground operations were normal and 
that no water was found in the fuel during the preflight inspection. He took off with full tanks of fuel. About 40 
minutes into the flight and about 1,800 ft mean sea level, he noticed that the airplane was "sluggish" and would 
not "maintain lift," but all engine indications were normal, and he noted no sputtering or hesitation. The pilot 
applied carburetor heat, and the engine speed dropped by about 300 rpm. Because the airplane continued to fly 
sluggishly, the pilot turned off the carburetor heat and then decided to conduct a forced landing in a grass field, 
during which the airplane nosed over and came to rest inverted. 
Examination of the airframe and engine did not reveal evidence of any preimpact mechanical malfunctions or 
failures that would have precluded normal operation. The pilot reported that there were no mechanical issues 
with the airplane during the flight and that the engine could produce 2,750 rpm (the maximum-rated rpm) at full 
power. He added that the high ambient temperature of 100°F and the full fuel load may have contributed to the 
airplane's sluggishness. 
A review of the student's logbook revealed that he had received only 3.1 hours of dual instruction and 15 hours 
of solo flight experience and that he did not have an instructor's endorsement to fly solo. The student's lack of 
training and experience likely contributed to his perception that there was a performance problem with the 
airplane.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
