Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
HAVERHILL, New Hampshire
Accident Number:
ERA18LA204
Date & Time:
July 29, 2018, 12:05 Local 
Registration:
N221EZ
Aircraft:
Progressive Aerodyne Searey
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
2 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot took off in the experimental, amateur-built amphibious airplane from a river, which 
was about 100 ft wide and lined with trees on both sides, and initiated a right 180° turn. He then made a 
left teardrop turn about 50 ft above ground level over a flat cornfield to make a 45° re-entry to land back 
on the river. When the airplane crossed over the river's shoreline, the pilot attempted to turn left and line 
up with the river; however, according to the pilot, the control stick would not move past the vertical 
position. He added power, but the airplane was unable to climb above trees on the opposite side of the 
river. The airplane collided with the trees and descended into the water. Postaccident examination of the 
airplane revealed both wings had been removed during recovery, but the flight controls moved freely 
when manually manipulated. The pilot said the airplane's automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast 
(ADS-B) component, which was attached to the control panel via a suction cup, may have come loose 
during the flight and become caught under the flight control assembly, thus jamming the flight controls. 
He demonstrated how an object could get caught under the controls; however, neither he nor the 
passenger could confirm that this happened on the accident flight, and examination of the ADS-B 
component did not reveal any physical damage. The pilot said that he would normally climb above the 
surrounding terrain before coming back to land; however, during this flight, he did not give himself an 
"out" in case of an emergency. His decision to maneuver the airplane below surrounding terrain in a 
confined area left insufficient altitude to troubleshoot a perceived flight control issue, and he was unable 
to remain clear of trees.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
