Page 1 of 23
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
North Fox Island, Michigan
Accident Number:
CEN18LA298
Date & Time:
July 29, 2018, 14:35 Local 
Registration:
N32WR
Aircraft:
Extra EA300
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Midair collision
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
An airline transport pilot in an aerobatic low-wing airplane, an Extra 300, with a passenger on board was 
landing while an airline transport pilot in a high-wing airplane, a Cessna 172, near maximum weight 
with two passengers on board was conducting a short/soft-field takeoff from an nontowered, island-
based runway surrounded by tall trees.
The Extra pilot and passenger reported that the pilot's landing intention was communicated on the 
common traffic advisory frequency (CTAF) with no replies. They saw an airplane at the opposite end of 
the airstrip, and the pilot decided to land. The Cessna pilot reported that he monitored the CTAF and 
then taxied down the center of the runway; he heard a radio call on the frequency from an airport on a 
nearby island. The Cessna pilot made his departure radio call on the CTAF in the blind and conducted a 
rolling departure with as much runway ahead as possible; he did not hear or see any other airplanes. The 
Cessna lifted off about 5 to 7 ft above ground level and accelerated to best angle of climb speed plus 10 
knots. The Extra pilot indicated that he did not see any aircraft while he was on final approach to landing 
until his airplane was about 20-30 ft above the landing surface just before the threshold when he saw a 
bright object out the right side just in front of the wing. The Extra and the Cessna then collided.
The CTAF frequency at the accident airport is not recorded. However, a witness monitoring another 
CTAF frequency on a nearby island overheard the pilot of an airplane calling intention to land and 
remarked to a customer that the call was on the wrong frequency. It is likely that the Extra pilot was 
transmitting on the CTAF frequency for the airport on a nearby island; the Cessna pilot likely heard this 
transmission but attributed it to a pilot landing at the other airport.
The airport leaseholder's website contained a link to pilot information, which included a safety briefing 
for the airport. The briefing recommended that the airport's CTAF, as well as another local airport's 
CTAF, be monitored. In addition, the briefing recommended that arriving aircraft fly over the airfield 
and scan for aircraft on the ground using a left traffic pattern. The briefing advised that the airport is in 
