Page 1 of 14
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Greenville, Maine
Accident Number:
ERA18FA206
Date & Time:
July 30, 2018, 10:44 Local 
Registration:
C-GRRS
Aircraft:
Piper PA60
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
3 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Non-U.S., non-commercial
Analysis 
The private pilot of the multiengine airplane was in cruise flight at 23,000 ft mean sea level (msl) in day 
visual meteorological conditions when he reported to air traffic control that the airplane was losing 
altitude due to a loss of engine power. The controller provided vectors to a nearby airport; about 7 
minutes later, the pilot reported the airport in sight and stated that he would enter a downwind leg for 
runway 14. By this time, the airplane had descended to about 3,200 ft above ground level. Radar data 
indicated that the airplane proceeded toward the runway but that it was about 400 ft above ground level 
on short final. The airplane flew directly over the airport at a low altitude before entering a left turn to a 
close downwind for runway 21. Witnesses stated that the airplane's propellers were turning, but they 
could not estimate engine power. When the airplane reached the approach end of runway 21, it entered a 
steep left turn and was flying slowly before the left wing suddenly "stalled" and the airplane pitched 
nose-down toward the ground.
Postaccident examination of the airplane and engines revealed no mechanical deficiencies that would 
have precluded normal operation at the time of impact. Examination of both propeller systems indicated 
power symmetry at the time of impact, with damage to both assemblies consistent with low or idle 
engine power. The onboard engine monitor recorded battery voltage, engine exhaust gas temperature, 
and cylinder head temperature for both engines. A review of the recorded data revealed that about 14 
minutes before the accident, there was a jump followed by a decrease in exhaust gas temperature (EGT) 
and cylinder head temperature (CHT) for both engines. The temperatures decreased for about 9 minutes, 
during which time the right engine EGT data spiked twice. Both engines' EGT and CHT values then 
returned to normal, consistent with both engines producing power, for the remaining 5 minutes of data. 
It is possible that a fuel interruption may have caused the momentary increase in both engines' EGT and 
CHT values and prompted the pilot to report the engine power loss; however, the engine monitor did not 
record fuel pressure or fuel flow, and examination of the airplane's fuel system and engines did not 
reveal any mechanical anomalies. Therefore, the reason for the reported loss of engine power could not 
be determined.
It is likely that the pilot's initial approach for landing was too high, and he attempted to circle over the 
