Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Brainerd, Minnesota
Accident Number:
CEN18LA302
Date & Time:
July 30, 2018, 10:00 Local 
Registration:
N1856W
Aircraft:
Beech A36
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot and passenger were on a 2-hour personal flight. Midway to the destination, the pilot switched 
the fuel selector from the right fuel tank to the left fuel tank. While on a visual approach about 1 hour 
later, the engine lost power. The pilot's attempts to restart the engine were unsuccessful, and he made a 
forced landing into trees, which resulted in damage to both wings. 
One week before the accident, while the pilot was flying the same route, the engine lost power while on 
a visual approach. The pilot switched the fuel selector from the left tank to the right tank and landed 
uneventfully. After landing, he switched from the right tank to the left tank and repeated the process 
twice; the engine lost power both times with the left tank selected. Maintenance personnel were unable 
to determine a cause for the power loss events, and the pilot flew the airplane back to his home airport 
without incident. The accident occurred on the next flight. 
A review of engine data indicated that the four power loss events occurred when the left fuel tank was 
about half full (19 gallons) and that they were consistent with an interruption of fuel supply to the 
engine. 
Examination of the fuel system revealed that the fuel selector left detent was worn; however, because 
both in-flight power loss events occurred without the pilot moving the fuel selector, this issue is not 
relevant to the accident. No other anomalies were found with the fuel system, including the left-wing 
fuel tank (bladder) or venting system. 
Although the investigation was unable to identify any anomalies with the left fuel tank and venting 
system, the circumstances of the power loss events are consistent with a loss of fuel flow from the left 
tank.
