Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Painesville, Ohio
Accident Number:
CEN18LA301
Date & Time:
July 27, 2018, 16:45 Local 
Registration:
N953RJ
Aircraft:
Flightstar SC II
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
1 Serious, 1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The student pilot reported that he and his wife owned the accident airplane and had made multiple 
practice taxi runs on the runway with no intention for flight. During one of the taxi runs, the airplane 
unexpectedly became airborne. The student determined that there was not enough runway remaining to 
perform a safe landing, so he chose to continue the takeoff. Once the airplane reached about 100 ft 
above ground level, it would no longer climb, and he attempted to land in a field; however, the airplane 
struck trees before reaching the intended field.
Before the accident, the student had performed maintenance on the airplane, which included replacing 
the propeller. He had intended to have a certificated mechanic check his work but had not done so 
before the accident because there was no intention for flight. He acknowledged that he may not have set 
the propeller pitch correctly, which could have negatively affected the airplane's performance. In 
addition, the atmospheric conditions were favorable for moderate icing at cruise power settings and 
serious icing at descent power settings. Carburetor icing likely accumulated during the multiple taxi runs 
performed before the unintentional flight. 
Based on the available information, the airplane inadvertently became airborne because the student 
allowed it to accelerate to flight speed. The available engine power was likely reduced due to an 
improper propeller pitch setting and carburetor icing, and both these conditions likely resulted in the 
airplane's inability to continue to climb.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
