Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Fort Lauderdale, Florida
Accident Number:
WPR18LA209
Date & Time:
June 14, 2018, 12:00 Local 
Registration:
N322HA
Aircraft:
Cessna 402
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Landing gear not configured
Injuries:
4 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 135: Air taxi & commuter - Non-scheduled
Analysis 
About 20 minutes into the flight, the airplane experienced a total electrical failure. The pilot maneuvered 
the airplane in circles while attempting to troubleshoot the problem and perform emergency checklists. 
Despite his efforts, power was not restored, and the electrically actuated hydraulic landing gear would 
not extend. The pilot attempted to extend the landing gear using the emergency extension system, but 
when he pulled the T-handle, it broke off from its housing, separating it from the cable. After additional 
troubleshooting attempts on the electrical system, the pilot chose to land at a nearby airport, and the 
airplane landed on the runway with the landing gear retracted, which resulted in substantial damage to 
the fuselage. A mechanic who performed a postaccident examination of the airplane stated that the left 
starter motor and starter relay/solenoid had electrical shorts. Additionally, the starter relay remained in 
the closed position, which likely resulted in the airplane drawing a greater electrical load and draining 
the battery, leading to a complete loss of power. 
The emergency extension T-handle was not examined after the accident. However, based on the pilot’s 
account of the handle breaking off when he attempted to use the emergency extension system, it is likely 
this prevented the manual extension of the landing gear, which resulted in the forced landing with the 
landing gear retracted. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The failure of the left starter relay, which resulted in a loss of electrical power during the flight and the 
failure of the T-handle from the cable led to a forced landing with the landing gear retracted.
