Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Lopez Island, Washington
Accident Number:
WPR18FA210
Date & Time:
August 2, 2018, 17:05 Local 
Registration:
N56039
Aircraft:
Mooney M20J
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot and flight instructor were conducting a flight review in the pilot's airplane. A witness 
departing from a nearby airport heard the pilot of the accident airplane make a position report while in 
the traffic pattern, then saw the accident airplane about 300 ft above ground level initiating a left turn 
from the base to final leg of the traffic pattern for landing. The airplane started the left turn and its bank 
angle progressively steepened until the airplane entered a spin and disappeared behind trees. 
The electric fuel boost pump was found inoperative; however, its condition suggested that it had been 
inoperative for an extended period of time before the accident flight. Further, the engine would run 
normally during landing using the engine-driven fuel pump. Therefore, the inoperative electric fuel 
boost pump did not contribute to the accident. Examination of the airframe and engine did not reveal any 
evidence of preimpact anomalies that would have precluded normal operation. Surveillance video near 
the accident location captured audio of the airplane as it approached the runway; the audio was 
consistent with the engine operating during the landing approach and revealed a sudden increase in 
engine sound shortly before the impact. 
The witness statement and impact signatures at the accident site were consistent with a cross control stall 
and spin and subsequent impact with trees as the pilot was likely attempting to correct his approach after 
overshooting the runway centerline during a base-to-final turn. The private pilot's rudder and aileron 
inputs were likely uncoordinated, which would have initiated the spin when one of the occupants added 
power at an altitude too low for recovery. While the flight instructor may have attempted to remediate 
the stall by adding power, his lack of oversight during the approach likely contributed to the stall entry.  
A low concentration of ethanol was detected in the pilot's cardiac and cavity blood; however, there was 
no ethanol found in fluid that was less susceptible to postmortem production, thus it is reasonable that 
some or all of the identified ethanol was from sources other than ingestion and did not contribute to the 
accident. There was postmortem evidence of moderate to severe atherosclerotic disease in the right 
