Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Foley, Alabama
Accident Number:
ERA18FA208
Date & Time:
August 4, 2018, 10:00 Local 
Registration:
N424A
Aircraft:
Champion 8GCBC
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Banner tow
Analysis 
The commercial pilot was conducting a banner-tow flight with a pilot-rated passenger. A witness (a 
ground crewmember) stated that, after takeoff, the approach and pickup of the banner appeared normal 
and that the engine sounded strong. According to the ground crewmember, the pilot successfully hooked 
the banner with the airplane tow cable and initiated a steep climbout with the banner in tow. The trailing 
edge of the banner had just come off the ground when the airplane reached an altitude of about 300 ft 
above ground level. At that point, the right wing dropped. The pilot attempted to maintain directional 
control by releasing the banner and applying left rudder; however, the airplane entered a right 
descending spin to the ground. Postaccident examination revealed no malfunctions that would have 
precluded normal operation of the airplane or engine.
It is likely that after the banner pickup and during initial climb, while the airplane had a high power 
setting, high pitch angle, and low airspeed, the airplane exceeded the critical angle of attack and entered 
an aerodynamic stall and spin from which recovery was not possible due to the airplane's altitude at the 
time. Even though the weight and balance were within limits for the accident flight, it is possible the 
presence of the back seat passenger reduced the airplane's performance, and that the pilot did not 
account for the effect of the back seat passenger on the performance of the airplane during the pickup 
maneuver.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's exceedance of the airplane's critical angle of attack, which resulted in a subsequent 
aerodynamic stall and spin at an altitude that was too low for recovery.
