Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Ponca City, Oklahoma
Accident Number:
CEN18FA310
Date & Time:
August 4, 2018, 10:45 Local 
Registration:
N13EP
Aircraft:
Extra EA 400
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
5 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was conducting a personal flight with four passengers. A witness observed the airplane take 
off and climb slowly from the airport. A pilot flying in the vicinity observed the airplane maneuver 
erratically before the airplane impacted terrain in a near-vertical attitude. The airplane was destroyed by 
impact forces and a postimpact fire. 
The wreckage was contained to a confined area in the field and the remains of the major airplane 
components were all accounted for. Extensive thermal damage to the airframe and engine limited the 
scope of the postaccident examination. The impact energy needed to drive the engine into the ground 
suggested that the engine was producing power at the time of the accident. A postaccident examination 
of the remaining airframe and engine components did not reveal any anomalies which would have 
precluded normal operation of the airplane.
Depending on the amount of fuel, baggage and equipment on board, and the location of the adult 
passenger, the center of gravity (CG) could have been within or aft of the recommended CG. Since fuel 
load and location of the passengers could not be determined or may have shifted during flight, it is not 
known if loading contributed to the accident.
The pilot was not operating with valid medical certification. His second-class medical certificate had 
expired several years prior to the accident and Federal Aviation Administration records did not indicate 
that he had obtained BasicMed medical certification. A pilot-rated passenger was seated in the right-
front seat. Investigators were unable to determine who was manipulating the flight controls of the 
airplane at the time of the accident.
The circumstances of the accident are consistent with the pilot’s loss of control. However, the reason for 
the loss of control could not be determined with the available evidence.
