Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Lakewood, New Jersey
Accident Number:
ERA18LA210
Date & Time:
August 4, 2018, 12:00 Local 
Registration:
N87000
Aircraft:
Champion 7GCAA
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel related
Injuries:
1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Banner tow
Analysis 
The pilot reported that the preflight check, ground operations, and subsequent 2-hour banner-towing 
flight were uneventful. On final approach, before dropping the banner, about 500 ft above ground level 
(agl), he reduced the throttle to idle as the airplane descended towards the runway. When the airplane 
was about tree height, he pitched up and added full throttle, preparing to drop the banner. He stated, "the 
engine continued to operate but produced very limited power while making abnormal combustion 
sounds." He verified the mixture was full rich and the throttle was full forward, then released the banner. 
The airplane was flying low and slow, so he pitched down and elected to land straight ahead. The 
airplane impacted small pine trees and terrain and the forward portion of the fuselage was substantially 
damaged. Postaccident examination of the engine revealed no evidence of preimpact mechanical 
anomalies that would have precluded normal engine operation. 
The weather conditions at the time of the accident were conducive to the formation of serious carburetor 
icing at glide engine power settings. The pilot reported that, during the approach, he did not apply 
carburetor heat and the engine did not produce as much power as expected as he attempted to increase 
power after dropping the banner. Therefore, it is likely that carburetor ice accumulated during approach, 
which resulted in a partial loss of engine power.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to use carburetor heat in weather conditions conducive to carburetor icing, which 
resulted in a partial loss of engine power due to the formation of carburetor ice, a forced landing and 
