Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Talkeetna, Alaska
Accident Number:
ANC18FA063
Date & Time:
August 4, 2018, 17:53 Local 
Registration:
N323KT
Aircraft:
De Havilland DHC-2
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Unknown or undetermined
Injuries:
5 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 135: Air taxi & commuter - Non-scheduled - Sightseeing
Analysis 
The commercial pilot was conducting a 1-hour commercial air tour flight over Denali National Park and 
Preserve with four passengers on board. About 48 minutes after departure, the Alaska Rescue 
Coordination Center received an alert from the airplane's emergency locator transmitter. About 7 
minutes later, company personnel received a call from the pilot, who reported that the airplane had run 
"into the side of a mountain." Although a search was initiated almost immediately, due to poor weather 
conditions in the area, the wreckage was not located until almost 36 hours later in a crevasse on a glacier 
about 10,920 ft mean sea level. Due to the unique challenges posed by the steepness of terrain, the 
crevasse, avalanche hazard, and the condition of the airplane, neither the occupants nor the wreckage 
were recovered from the accident site. 
A weather model sounding for the area of the accident site estimated broken cloud bases at 700 ft above 
ground level (agl) with overcast clouds at 1,000 ft agl and cloud tops to 21,000 ft agl and higher clouds 
above. The freezing level was at 9,866 ft and supported light-to-moderate rime type icing in clouds and 
precipitation. The on-scene assessment indicated that the right wing impacted snow while the airplane 
was flying in a wings-level attitude; the right wing had separated from the remainder of the wreckage. 
Based upon available weather data and forecast models and the impact evidence, it is likely that the pilot 
entered an area of reduced visibility and was unable to see the terrain before the airplane's right wing 
impacted the snow.
The company's organizational structure was such that one group of management personnel oversaw 
operations in both Anchorage and Talkeetna. Interviews with company management revealed that they 
were not always aware of the exact routing a pilot would take for a tour; the route was pilot's discretion 
based upon the weather at the time of the flight to provide the best tour experience. 
Regarding risk mitigation, the company did not utilize a formal risk assessment process, but rather relied 
on conversations between pilots and flight followers. This could lead to an oversight of actual risk 
associated with a particular flight route and weather conditions.
