Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Knox, Indiana
Accident Number:
CEN18LA319
Date & Time:
August 4, 2018, 15:00 Local 
Registration:
N533JW
Aircraft:
Beech 35
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
4 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot and three passengers were on a cross-country flight in a single-engine airplane. About 
10 miles from the destination airport, the pilot switched to the fullest fuel tank, entered the traffic 
pattern, and reduced the throttle to slow the airplane. While on final approach, he advanced the throttle; 
however, the engine did not respond. The pilot turned the boost pump on to "emergency – high," but the 
engine still did not respond. Shortly after, the pilot turned the boost pump off and conducted a forced 
landing in a field, during which the engine was bent downward from the firewall and the fuselage 
sustained substantial damage. 
The on-site examination found sufficient fuel available in each of the wing fuel tanks. Additionally, fuel 
was present in the fuel lines near the engine's fuel manifold. A detailed engine examination and 
download of the engine monitor were conducted after airplane recovery. A review of the engine data for 
the day of the accident found three files. The last file corresponded to the accident flight, and the 
monitor indicated 30.4 gallons used. The pilot reported the fuel at last takeoff was 33 gallons.
The engine examination did not find any evidence of mechanical malfunctions or failures that would 
have precluded normal operation.
Although data from the engine monitor indicated that the airplane was very low on fuel, the on-site 
examination showed various levels of fuel available in the fuel tanks. Thus, it is likely that the airplane's 
engine monitor did not accurately reflect the airplane's correct fuel state. Based on the available 
evidence, the reason for the total loss of engine power could not be determined.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
