Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Lewiston, Idaho
Accident Number:
WPR18LA215
Date & Time:
August 8, 2018, 18:28 Local 
Registration:
N255
Aircraft:
Cessna T337
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Sys/Comp malf/fail (non-power)
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Aerial observation
Analysis 
The pilot reported that he was returning to the airport after an uneventful aerial survey flight. When the 
pilot extended the landing gear, the system began operating but the gear did not extend. Multiple efforts 
to extend the gear, including assistance by the passenger and coordination with his company's 
maintenance personnel, were unsuccessful. The pilot then burned off excess fuel and conducted a gear-
up landing at the airport. The airplane sustained substantial damage to the lower fuselage. 
Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed that two main landing gear door actuators had 
hyperextended and allowed all hydraulic fluid to be lost. Detailed examination indicated that the right 
actuator had hyperextended in flight, while the left one hyperextended due to landing gear door runway 
contact during the gear-up landing. The actuator rod in each actuator was normally travel-limited and 
contained by a single internal snap ring, which acted as the mechanical stop and retention device for the 
rod inside the actuator cylinder. For undetermined reasons, the snap ring was liberated from its groove in 
the right actuator, which allowed the actuator rod to travel beyond its normal limit, which resulted in the 
loss of hydraulic fluid and operational failure of the landing gear. Postexamination reassembly and 
testing of the landing gear system indicated that the hyperextended actuators were the only mechanical 
deficiencies in the system.
The airplane manufacturer's maintenance manual specified the replacement of the snap rings (retainers) 
upon rebuild of the actuator. According to the airplane maintenance records, all three main landing gear 
door cylinders (actuators) were rebuilt with new "O-rings" about 4 years before the accident. The entry 
did not cite any additional details about the rebuilds, including whether new internal snap rings were 
installed. Discussions with the operator's director of maintenance indicated that the snap rings likely 
were not replaced during the actuator rebuild.
Review of industry documents revealed other occurrences of snap ring liberation and consequent 
landing gear system problems in this model airplane, and at least two different hardware options to 
prevent recurrence were available. One incorporated a new-design actuator that eliminated the accident 
