Page 1 of 12
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Baker City, Oregon
Accident Number:
WPR18FA218
Date & Time:
August 11, 2018, 10:17 Local 
Registration:
N231EC
Aircraft:
Mooney M20K
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot and student pilot-rated passenger were in a high-performance airplane and inbound for 
landing. Multiple witnesses saw the airplane on the downwind leg of the airport traffic pattern; one 
witness estimated that the airplane was lower and closer to the runway than a typical traffic pattern. 
Witnesses then saw the airplane begin a left turn, and one reported that the airplane then rapidly 
transitioned to a nose-down descent.
The wreckage location corresponded to an extended downwind-to-base turn; there was ample space 
available for the pilot to initiate the turn to final without excessive flight control inputs. The airplane 
appeared to be in the landing configuration, and debris distribution and damage indicated a near vertical, 
nose-down impact, consistent with the airplane impacting the ground while in a spin.
Postaccident examination did not reveal any anomalies with the airframe or engine that would have 
precluded normal operation, and the engine appeared to be operating at the time of impact; however, 
evidence suggested that the airplane's engine-driven vacuum pump had recently failed. Such a failure 
would have resulted in multiple visual alerts, caused the vacuum-operated instruments to become 
inoperative, and prevented operation of the airplane's speed brakes. The airplane was equipped with a 
backup vacuum system; however, impact damage prevented an accurate assessment of its operational 
status at the time of the accident. The vacuum pump had exceeded its manufacturer's recommended 
replacement life and had been subjected to multiple sudden engine stoppage events, each of which 
required replacement of the pump; however, there was no indication in the airplane's logbooks that the 
pump had been replaced following these events.
Although none of the systems that relied on the vacuum pump were critical for visual flight rules 
operation, such a failure would have presented an operational distraction to the pilot that would have 
competed for his attention while flying in the pattern. Based on witness reports and the location of the 
wreckage, it is possible that he extended the downwind leg to attempt to manage the failure or in an 
effort to slow the airplane further in order to land without the speed brakes.
