Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Incident Number:
DCA18IA265
Date & Time:
August 10, 2018, 20:50 Local 
Registration:
N619A
Aircraft:
Gulfstream G IV
Aircraft Damage:
None
Defining Event:
Course deviation
Injuries:
10 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 135: Air taxi & commuter - Non-scheduled
Analysis 
Pegasus Elite Aviation flight 19 was on final approach to runway 35 at Philadelphia 
International Airport, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The airplane deviated from the runway 35 
centerline about 2.4 miles from the runway 35 threshold and aligned with taxiway E shortly 
thereafter.  The flight crew initiated a low-altitude go-around, arrested the airplane’s descent, 
and started to climb the airplane about 0.1 mile from the south end of taxiway E. The airplane 
flew past four airplanes that were on taxiway E.
The captain stated that he was flying a visual approach to runway 35 with the area navigation 
(RNAV) approach for backup. Both flight crewmembers stated that the RNAV needle showed 
that the airplane was centered during the approach. The captain stated that, as the flight 
proceeded inbound, the airport lights blended together, and he lost visual contact with the 
runway at a distance of about 1 to 2 miles out and at an altitude of 500 ft above ground level 
(agl). The first officer stated that he did not see the approach lights or the runway, and that 
the captain initiated the go-around 1 mile from the airport while the airplane was at 500 ft agl.  
Flight data recorder (FDR) and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) radar data showed 
that, during go-around procedure, the airplane moved to the right from aligned with the 
taxiway to between the taxiway and runway, and reached a minimum altitude of 125 ft agl 
when it was 0.1 mile from the runway 35 threshold, at which point the airplane stopped 
descending and began climbing.  FAA radar data showed that the closest the incident airplane 
came to the first airplane it passed was about 200 ft vertically.  The airplane then flew past the 
three other airplanes that were on taxiway E while continuing to climb.  
The flight crewmembers initiated a low-altitude go-around because they did not recognize 
that the airplane was misaligned with the runway until late in the final approach. As a result, 
safety margins were severely reduced given the incident airplane’s proximity to the ground 
