Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Florence, South Carolina
Accident Number:
ERA18LA215
Date & Time:
August 9, 2018, 13:12 Local 
Registration:
N1693R
Aircraft:
Cessna R182
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Electrical system malf/failure
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
Before departure on the personal flight, the private pilot reported that the engine had to be started using 
an auxiliary power supply because the battery was dead; however, he did not determine the reason for 
the dead battery. After the engine was started, he reported normal electrical system indications. About 
10 minutes into the 20-minute flight, the pilot noticed that the electric fuel gauges were reading zero and 
the ammeter was showing a discharge. He did not consult or comply with emergency procedures from 
the pilot's operating handbook (POH) for a discharging ammeter and continued to his destination, where 
he attempted to extend the landing gear using the normal system; however, there was no down-and-
locked indication. He confirmed visually that the nose landing gear was down and locked; he performed 
a fly-by of the air traffic control tower, was informed that the landing gear appeared to be down, and 
returned for landing. After touchdown, both main landing gear collapsed, the airplane began to veer to 
the left, and the left wing and horizontal stabilizer contacted the runway. The airplane came to rest in the 
grass off the left side of the runway. Postaccident examination and operational testing of the normal and 
emergency landing gear extension and indicating systems revealed no evidence of preimpact failure or 
malfunction that would have precluded normal operation. Had the pilot shed unnecessary electrical load 
per the POH when he first noticed the discharging state or pumped the landing gear down using the 
emergency gear extension mechanism, it is likely that the landing gear would have extended and locked 
into position. The reason for the electrical system failure was not investigated.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
