Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Napa, California
Accident Number:
WPR18TA223
Date & Time:
August 11, 2018, 10:56 Local 
Registration:
N328SK
Aircraft:
Zenair ZENITH STOL CH750
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Powerplant sys/comp malf/fail
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot/owner was conducting a flight in the experimental amateur-built airplane with a pilot-rated 
passenger, who was a potential buyer. The pilot reported that they flew in the local area for about 20 
minutes, and then smoke entered the cockpit. The pilot declared an emergency and headed toward the 
departure airport. Within 1-2 minutes, the engine lost all oil pressure and then lost total power.
The pilot initially attempted to glide to the airport but, because it was too far away, decided to land on a 
road atop a nearby levee. The airplane touched down normally, but due to wind, the left wingtip struck 
the ground; the airplane spun, veered off the levee, and sustained substantial damage to the wing and 
fuselage.
The engine exhibited some impact-related damage but did not exhibit any external evidence of 
nonimpact-related damage. The engine was devoid of lubricating oil, and significant oil residue was 
observed on the muffler and the lower fuselage. Postaccident examination indicated that the source of 
the oil was via the seal for the engine case drive penetration of the starter ring gear, located just above 
the muffler. The oil exited via this seal and produced smoke when it contacted the hot muffler.
The engine control unit (ECU) was removed and shipped to the engine manufacturer's facility, where it 
was installed on a testbed engine. That engine operated normally with the accident ECU installed.
The engine was disassembled and examined in detail. All four pistons displayed evidence of significant 
erosion damage consistent with detonation, with at least one piston eroded to the point that it could no 
longer seal against the cylinder wall. A common cause of detonation is using a lower octane fuel than 
specified by the manufacturer. The damage was consistent with the use of fuel with octane rating(s) 
significantly below that required for the engine. Although the pilot did not specify the octane rating of 
the fuel that he used, it is likely that he used fuel below the required octane rating.
