Page 1 of 11
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Rhome, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN18FA336
Date & Time:
August 16, 2018, 19:35 Local 
Registration:
N2893Q
Aircraft:
Cessna 172
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
1 Fatal, 3 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The commercial pilot was taking family members for rides in his airplane; the accident flight was the 
third flight of the evening. After the second flight, the pilot landed and taxied the airplane back to his 
property, where three family members boarded the airplane while the engine continued to run. The pilot 
taxied back to the runway and departed. A pilot-rated witness stated that the takeoff roll was longer than 
expected, and, once airborne, the airplane pitched "very high" nose-up to about 50 ft above ground level 
(agl), then the nose came back down. The airplane appeared to accelerate down the runway until it 
climbed to about 300 ft agl, then made a left turn and descended out of view. The airplane impacted 
several trees and continued into a field, where it came to rest inverted. Damage to the propeller was 
consistent with a lack of engine power at the time of impact.
Examination of the airplane revealed evidence of a longstanding pattern of inadequate maintenance, 
including a rodent's nest in the leading edge of the left wing, a large mud dauber nest on the oil cooler, 
and cobwebs in the engine compartment. An automotive hydraulic hose was used in place of the main 
fuel line from the gascolator to the carburetor. The gascolator fuel strainer contained 3 large pieces of 
organic debris similar to insect cocoons, which were the same size as the hydraulic hose and associated 
fuel fitting. It is likely that the fuel line was removed for an extended period of time and eventually 
replaced with the automotive hydraulic hose, during which time the fuel system was exposed, which 
allowed insects to nest inside; because there were no maintenance records associated with the airplane, it 
could not be determined when the hose was replaced. During the accident flight, it is likely that the 
organic material became dislodged and restricted fuel to the carburetor, which subsequently starved the 
engine of available fuel and resulted in a total loss of engine power. 
The autopsy of the pilot revealed evidence of hypertension and coronary artery disease; however, it is 
unlikely that these conditions contributed to the accident. Toxicological testing indicated that the pilot 
had been using alcohol before the accident and had levels considered impairing; it is likely that alcohol 
impaired the pilot's decision making and his ability to operate the airplane. Toxicological testing also 
revealed evidence that the pilot had used marijuana before the accident; however, it could not be 
determined if the concentrations would have been impairing or would have affected his performance. 
