Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Salmon, Idaho
Accident Number:
WPR18LA227
Date & Time:
August 18, 2018, 11:50 Local 
Registration:
N84CP
Aircraft:
Cessna 182
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Other weather encounter
Injuries:
2 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot-rated passenger reported that the accident pilot fueled the airplane then conducted a short 
formation flight of two airplanes with the accident airplane in the lead to a backcountry airstrip. The trail 
pilot reported that, during the briefing for the return flight, he and the accident pilot decided to take off 
to the north parallel to the west side of a river, and shortly after, to turn left 180° toward the south back 
toward the departure airport. 
According to the pilot-rated passenger, during takeoff and initial climb, the engine was producing 
power, and the airplane climbed as expected. The trail pilot, who watched the takeoff, confirmed that the 
takeoff and initial climb seemed normal. Shortly thereafter, the trail pilot saw the accident pilot make a 
90° left turn toward the west and head up a canyon, which he said confused him because “you cannot 
out climb the rising terrain to the west, and it is a tight little canyon to turn in.” He indicated in a 
postaccident statement that he then asked the accident pilot, “where are you going? And, the pilot 
replied, “we’re going down.” The trail pilot indicated that he then asked the accident pilot if he was 
going “downstream,” and the accident pilot responded, “’crashing’ or something similar.” He received 
no further communication from the accident pilot.
The pilot-rated passenger stated that he was unaware of any issues with the airplane before the accident 
pilot’s exchange with the trail pilot. He added that, after the accident, the accident pilot told him that he 
thought that the loss of lift was due to the airplane encountering a downdraft. He then looked at the 
cockpit panel and saw that the manifold pressure gauge was reading 20 inches of manifold pressure. He 
opined that the engine was not producing power and that the airplane was descending. According to the 
pilot-rated passenger, the accident pilot then said he was going “to put the[air]plane in some trees.” The 
passenger stated that the accident pilot turned slightly to the left, he managed the airspeed, and then the 
airplane settled into a stand of trees “slow and level” as the stall warning horn was “chirping.” The 
airplane became lodged in the trees about 10 to 12 ft above the ground. When the passenger noticed fire 
emanating from the engine cowling, he and the accident pilot egressed the airplane. Shortly thereafter, 
the airplane exploded and was subsequently consumed by fire. 
