Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Westminster, Maryland
Accident Number:
ERA18FA221
Date & Time:
August 18, 2018, 10:40 Local 
Registration:
N105SE
Aircraft:
Quicksilver MXL II Sport
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Aircraft structural failure
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot and a passenger departed on a local flight and returned for landing about 15 minutes 
later. While the airplane was on final approach at an altitude between 100 and 200 ft, several witnesses 
heard a loud sound, and one of the witnesses saw the right wing fold and the airplane enter a steep 
descent. The airplane subsequently impacted terrain in a field near the airport.
A witnesses reported observing the airframe parachute system deploy. The inspection of the components 
of the airframe ballistic parachute system indicated that the system had likely deployed just before or at 
the time of impact. Deployment of the parachute system at that low altitude would have been 
insufficient to adequately arrest the airplane's descent prior to impact.
A stainless steel bolt secured the upper and lower wing cables to the outer leading edge spar of the right 
wing. Examination of the bolt showed that it fractured during flight due to stress corrosion cracking that 
extended across about 95% of the cross-section area of the bolt shank. The bolt failure allowed the 
leading edge spar to rotate upward relative to the trailing edge spar and fracture at the inboard cable 
attach point, precluding controlled flight.
The stainless-steel material used for the wing cable attachment bolt was susceptible to stress corrosion 
cracking when exposed to a chloride-containing environment (such as the ocean). The airplane was 
previously equipped with floats, and was likely operated as an amphibious airplane at some point before 
the pilot purchased it. In addition, the installed bolt was a different material than the AN5-30A bolt 
specified in the Quicksilver Assembly, Maintenance, and Parts Manual for securing the outer upper and 
lower wing cables to the leading edge spar of the right wing. The material of the bolt recommended in 
the manual would be generally resistant to stress corrosion cracking as a result of a chloride-containing 
environment. The maintenance records did not indicate when the stainless steel bolt was installed.
Evidence of stress corrosion cracking might not be apparent during visual inspections of the bolted joint. 
Also, the location of the stress corrosion cracking on the bolt would likely not have been detected during 
a condition inspection with the bolted joint in place. Further, the assembly, maintenance, and parts 
