Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
LaPorte, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN18LA340
Date & Time:
August 20, 2018, 06:20 Local 
Registration:
N6860W
Aircraft:
Beech B36TC
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The student pilot was conducting a local flight. He said that during the initial climb, the engine began to 
make a "weird very loud sound" and that the engine started to lose power. He stated that the "engine 
noise started to get louder and power was almost gone." When he activated the auxiliary fuel pump, the 
engine noise became "real loud" and sounded "very deep." The airplane was descending, and the student 
pilot performed  a forced landing near a housing development.  During the landing, the right wing 
separated and the airplane's cabin collapsed inward.  Although a Federal Aviation Administration 
inspector expressed concerns about the exhaust pipe v-band clamp, the nature of those concerns were 
not conveyed to the NTSB.  The airplane's engine was removed and later examined and test run at the 
manufacturer. During a postaccident examination, the v-band clamp was found to be loose and could 
have allowed manual rotation of the turbo outlet collar. However, it could not be determined what effect 
this may have had on the accident. The examination also revealed that the induction hoses to and from 
the intercooler were both torn. If the induction hose to the intercooler failed in flight, manifold pressure 
would have dropped immediately, and the noise the pilot heard could have been turbo discharge pressure 
escaping through the tear in the hose. When the engine lost turbo pressure, the fuel pump would have 
continued to operate with a much richer mixture because it would not have sensed a loss of induction 
pressure. When the pilot turned on the auxiliary fuel pump, the engine would have been flooded with 
excess fuel. Thus, it is likely that the torn induction hose combined with the excess fuel from activation 
of the fuel pump led to the engine being flooded resulting in the loss of engine power. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The loss of engine power due to a torn intercooler hose that resulted in an overly rich fuel 
mixture, which, when combined with the pilot's activation of the auxiliary fuel pump, flooded 
the engine.
