Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Deadwood, California
Accident Number:
WPR18LA233
Date & Time:
August 20, 2018, 16:30 Local 
Registration:
N14CK
Aircraft:
Blue Oak LLC. CCK-1865
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
After completing routine maintenance on the experimental, amateur-built airplane, the private pilot 
decided to conduct a test flight near the departure airport. He completed a preflight inspection, a ground 
engine run, and taxi checks, which were normal; he noted that about 12 gallons of fuel was onboard the 
airplane. About 10 minutes after departure, he chose to extend the flight, as he did not observe any 
anomalies with the airplane. After an uneventful period of flight, the airplane was about 500 ft above 
ground level over mountain ridge tops when the engine lost partial power. The pilot maintained level 
flight and maneuvered the airplane toward more favorable terrain before the engine lost total power. 
Subsequently, the pilot performed a forced landing in a small clearing within heavily wooded 
mountainous terrain. During the landing roll, the airplane struck a tree and came to rest upright.
Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed no evidence of preexisting mechanical malfunctions 
or failures with the engine or fuel system, including the fuel quantity sight gauges, that would have 
precluded normal operation. The pilot reported that, after the accident, he noticed that the left-wing fuel 
cap was not fully secured. Wreckage recovery company personnel indicated that the right-wing fuel tank 
was void of fuel, and the left-wing fuel tank contained about 1/2 gallon of fuel. Review of a photograph 
provided by the wreckage recovery company taken 10 days after the accident revealed a small amount of 
residue and discoloration directly aft of the left-wing fuel filler neck, extending to the trailing edge of 
the fuel tank cover. It is likely that fuel vented through the loose fuel cap in flight, which reduced fuel 
quantity and led to the subsequent loss of engine power. Further, the pilot failed to adequately monitor 
the fuel quantity sight gauges while in flight.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
