Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Thomaston, Georgia
Accident Number:
ERA18LA226
Date & Time:
July 4, 2018, 09:30 Local 
Registration:
N8314W
Aircraft:
Piper PA28
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Landing gear collapse
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot performed a preflight inspection with no anomalies noted before the cross-country 
flight. He made a full-stop landing at an airport before flying to the destination airport. He 
configured the airplane for final approach. The main landing gear touched down, but when the 
nose landing gear contacted the runway, the airplane veered left. The pilot attempted to 
counteract the turn by applying rudder; however, the airplane continued to the left side of the 
runway. The right wing tip touched the pavement, the propeller struck the runway, and the nose 
landing gear wheel separated as the airplane continued off the runway. The airplane came to 
rest about 75 ft off the left side of the runway in a grassy area. The rod that attached the 
nosewheel to the nosewheel assembly remained connected to the nose landing gear fork; 
however, the rod was bent, and one of the nuts that secured the nosewheel to the rod was 
missing. Further examination  revealed that the rod was threaded on both ends; one end had a 
nut attached, while the other end had bare threads that had been deformed in a manner 
consistent with the nut having been pulled off the threads. The missing nut was not located on 
the runway. The airplane had landed over 250 times between the most recent annual 
inspection and the accident. The location of the missing nut could not be seen during the 
preflight inspection because the area is covered by the wheel fairing. It could not be 
determined when the nut was pulled from the axle rod.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
A landing gear axle nut being pulled from the threads of the axle rod at an unknown time, 
which resulted in the pilot's inability to maintain directional control during landing.
