Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Mayport, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA18LA227
Date & Time:
August 17, 2018, 13:20 Local 
Registration:
N1330Z
Aircraft:
Beech 35
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel starvation
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot reported that he was in cruise flight when the engine lost total power. The pilot's 
attempts to restart the engine were unsuccessful. He contacted air traffic control and reported 
that he was unable to make it to the closest airport and ditched the airplane into the Atlantic 
Ocean. Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed that both elevators had separated 
from the horizontal stabilizer during the ditching. Examination of the engine revealed that a 
fuel line that had been attached to the fuel flow sensor was broken. Detailed examination of the 
fracture surfaces on the broken fuel line fitting revealed features that were consistent with 
high-stress, low-cycle fatigue crack propagation. The crack initiated at the outside, progressing 
through the thickness of the aluminum fuel line and partially along its circumference until final 
overstress fracture. A review of the installation drawings and instructions revealed that the fuel 
flow sensor was installed without a mounting bracket per installation instructions. Given this 
information, it is likely that the fuel line fractured in fatigue due to the improper installation, 
and lack of support that would have been provided by the required bracket. The failure of the 
fuel line subsequently resulted in fuel starvation, and the total loss of engine power. While the 
available maintenance records detailed the installation of an engine monitoring device and 
accompanying cylinder head temperature probes, there were no records that indicated when 
the fuel flow sensor was installed. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The failure of a fuel line due to improper installation of a fuel flow sensor, which resulted in 
