Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Kaktovik, Alaska
Accident Number:
ANC18LA066
Date & Time:
August 21, 2018, 18:30 Local 
Registration:
N8041R
Aircraft:
Cessna A185F
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was maneuvering to land at a riverside gravel beach when the engine experienced a 
loss of power at low altitude. The pilot stated that the engine surged and he was not sure if it 
was a partial loss of power. He attempted to restore power by advancing the throttle, mixture 
and propeller controls; however, power was not restored. The pilot continued straight ahead 
and turned on the auxiliary fuel boost pump, and engine power was restored as the airplane 
impacted brush-covered terrain, resulting in substantial damage. 
The wreckage recovery crew observed almost no fuel in one tank and very little in the other. 
The pilot stated that fuel leaked out of the low wing fuel vent after the accident and he provided 
photographic evidence. The precise quantity of usable fuel at the time of the accident could not 
be determined. Given full fuel tanks at the time of departure and an average fuel flow of 13 
gallons per hour, the fuel remaining about the time of the accident should have been about 17 
gallons distributed between the two wing tanks, of which 6 gallons was considered unusable. A 
review of GPS data revealed that the engine experienced the power loss after the pilot 
performed a steep turn to survey the landing site.
Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed no mechanical malfunctions or failures that 
would have precluded normal operation. Fuel was present in the fuel system components 
leading to the engine and the engine operated normally during a test run. 
It is likely that, during the steep turn with the airplane's low fuel state, a wing fuel tank pickup 
was unported, which resulted in an interruption of fuel supply to the engine and a loss of 
engine power. Due to the airplane's low altitude, the pilot was unable to restore power before 
impact with terrain.  
