Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Little Rock, Arkansas
Accident Number:
CEN18LA347
Date & Time:
August 22, 2018, 13:00 Local 
Registration:
N7954W
Aircraft:
Piper PA-28-235
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
2 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot and his passenger were on a multi-leg cross-country flight. The pilot reported that he 
departed with a total of 84 gallons of fuel in the auxiliary and main tanks and flew two flight legs that 
lasted a total of about 40 to 50 minutes. The fuel selector was positioned on the right fuel tank during the 
first two legs of flight. Before departing on the third flight leg, he switched the fuel selector to the left 
main fuel tank. 
About 10 minutes after takeoff and after climbing to 4,500 ft above mean sea level, the pilot turned off 
the fuel boost pump and engaged the autopilot. He reported that the engine then rolled back to idle. He 
immediately turned the fuel boost pump back on but noted no difference. The pilot switched the fuel 
selector back to the right main tank since he had flown the previous legs on the right main tank without 
any problems. The engine then lost total power, and he attempted an engine restart without success. He 
performed a forced landing to a grassy field, during which the airplane impacted rough terrain, which 
resulted in substantial damage to the airplane. After recovery of the airplane, 22 gallons of fuel were 
removed from the left fuel tank and none was removed from the right fuel tank; however, the right fuel 
tank was compromised from impact damage. The postaccident examination of the airframe and engine 
revealed no evidence of preimpact mechanical malfunctions or failures that would have precluded 
normal operation. Thus, investigators were unable to determine the reason for the loss of engine power 
based on the available evidence. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
