Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Dansville, New York
Accident Number:
GAA18CA502
Date & Time:
August 4, 2018, 14:00 Local 
Registration:
N851EJ
Aircraft:
WSK PZL MIELEC    M-18A
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Low altitude operation/event
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 137: Agricultural
Analysis 
The pilot reported that he was performing an agricultural application flight to a corn field, which had a 
tree line running west to east on the north side of the field and another tree line running north to south on 
the east end of the field. He was making application passes from east to west and started at the south 
side of the field progressing northward toward the tree line with each pass. He added that he noticed that 
the wind speed increased to about 10 to 12 mph. During the second to last spray pass, while heading 
west, he came over the east end tree line and descended close to the corn. About 300 ft into the field, the 
airplane began to descend rapidly, and he pitched the airplane's nose up. He added that the descent 
continued and that the airplane began to lose airspeed. The landing gear struck the corn, and the airplane 
impacted terrain and came to rest inverted.
The pilot added that he believed a combination of descending air that rolled over the north line of trees, 
wind shear, the low-altitude flying, and reduced margin of error for the proper application of pesticide 
caused the accident.
The airplane sustained substantial damage to the empennage.
The pilot reported that there were no preaccident mechanical failures or malfunctions with the airplane 
that would have precluded normal operation.
A weather station, located about 3 miles northeast of the accident site reported, about the time of the 
accident, temperature 85.3°F, dew point 68.3°F, and wind from 293° at 6 mph, gusting to 8 mph.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
