Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Elberta, Alabama
Accident Number:
GAA18CA503
Date & Time:
August 22, 2018, 10:00 Local 
Registration:
N88287
Aircraft:
Champion 8GCBC
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Banner tow
Analysis 
The pilot in the tailwheel-equipped airplane reported that, during a banner towing operation, the ground 
crew attempted to connect the banner to the hook, but the banner did not connect and became caught on 
the tailwheel. The pilot made several approaches over the field to dislodge the banner. He reported that, 
during his last attempt to dislodge the banner, he moved the throttle to idle and made a normal descent to 
drop the banner. The banner remained caught on the tailwheel, and he stopped the descent and then 
moved the throttle from idle to full power. However, the engine sputtered, and the power did not 
increase. He then visually and physically confirmed that the mixture was in the full-rich position and 
that the primer was in the closed-and-locked position. He attempted moving the throttle from idle to full 
power two more times with no subsequent change in engine power. The pilot subsequently made a 
forced landing on the southwest corner of the field, and the airplane collided with uneven terrain and 
trees. 
The airplane sustained substantial damage to both wings and the fuselage. 
The pilot reported that there were no mechanical malfunctions or failures with the airplane that would 
have precluded normal operation. 
During a postaccident interview, the pilot reported that, during the low-power setting approaches to 
release the banner, he did not use carburetor heat. The pilot reported that the temperature about the time 
of the accident was 80°F. The METAR at the nearest airport reported that the dew point about the time 
of the accident was 72°F. The relative humidity was about 77%. The atmospheric conditions at the time 
of the accident were conducive to the accumulation of serious carburetor icing. Federal Aviation 
Administration Special Airworthiness Information Bulletin CE-09-35 recommends the use of carburetor 
heat when operating in conditions of visible moisture or high humidity while on approach with low-
power settings. The pilot's failure to use carburetor heat likely resulted in the accumulation of carburetor 
icing during the low-power setting approaches and led to the partial loss of engine power.
