Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Shreveport, Louisiana
Accident Number:
CEN18LA346
Date & Time:
August 22, 2018, 10:50 Local 
Registration:
N4275Q
Aircraft:
Cessna 172
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Miscellaneous/other
Injuries:
1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The student pilot was departing on a solo cross-country flight when she observed a decrease in climb 
performance and airspeed shortly after takeoff. She reduced airplane pitch to increase airspeed and avoid 
an aerodynamic stall. Although the engine continued to operate normally at full throttle, the pilot 
concluded that there was an engine issue because she was unable to maintain a normal climb pitch 
attitude without a decrease in airspeed. She told the tower controller that she was going to land and 
made an immediate turn near midfield to land on a crossing runway. She stated that, after aligning with 
the crossing runway, the airplane's airspeed had increased to 95-100 knots and that the airplane was too 
high to make a normal landing. She reduced engine power to idle and attempted to glide to the runway; 
however, the airplane landed in a grassy area past the end of the runway and bounced three times before 
the nose gear collapsed.
The pilot acknowledged after the accident that the engine did not malfunction during the flight and 
postulated that the airplane had encountered a wingtip vortex from another airplane. However, a review 
of available air traffic control radar track data did not identify any departing or landing aircraft during 
the 15 minutes before the accident that would have resulted in a wake turbulence encounter. 
Additionally, the postaccident examination of the airplane's flight controls and engine did not reveal any 
evidence of a mechanical malfunction or failure that would have precluded normal operation. Based on 
the pilot's statement and the lack of any evidence of a mechanical malfunction or failure, it is likely that 
she overshot the runway after her misperception of an engine issue due to her failure to maintain proper 
pitch control during initial climb.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
