Page 1 of 11
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Descanso, California
Accident Number:
WPR18FA237
Date & Time:
August 22, 2018, 16:15 Local 
Registration:
N1682G
Aircraft:
Champion 7KCAB
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The flight instructor and the pilot receiving instruction were conducting an instructional flight for spin 
training. About 15 minutes into the flight, the radar data showed the airplane in a slight left turn at about 
2,400 ft agl, then enter a right 360o decreasing turn before dropping off radar. The last radar hit was 
about 1,500 ft above the accident site. The airplane's final maneuver and rapid descent are consistent 
with a spin entry. 
The FAA Advisory Circular AC 61-67C, Stall and Spin Awareness Training, provides information that 
reports spin avoidance, incipient spins, actual spin entry, spin, and spin recovery techniques should be 
practiced from an altitude above 3,500 feet AGL. 
Examination of the accident site revealed the airplane impacted terrain in a right wing and nose down 
attitude. Examination of the wreckage revealed no anomalies with the airframe or engine that would 
have precluded normal operation. Damage to the airplane's fuel tanks indicated that they contained fuel 
at the time of impact. Damage to the propeller revealed varying degrees of impact damage consistent 
with some degree of engine power at the time of impact. 
According to the weight and balance calculations, the airplane exceeded its maximum gross weight at 
takeoff by 73 lbs and the center of gravity was outside the acrobatic flight envelope. This could have 
affected the spin and recovery characteristics and may have degraded or enhanced the spin maneuver. It 
was not determined if either pilot was aware of the weight and balance of the airplane. 
 
Although the flight instructor had postmortem evidence of atherosclerotic disease that could pose a risk 
to flight safety, there was no evidence of an acute cardiac event. For both pilots, toxicology testing 
showed small amounts of ethanol in cavity blood and muscle, but not in brain tissue. Thus, it is likely 
that the ethanol is due to postmortem production and not consumption of ethanol prior to the flight.
