Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Falcon, Colorado
Accident Number:
CEN18LA348
Date & Time:
August 23, 2018, 12:54 Local 
Registration:
N2880W
Aircraft:
Piper PA32R
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot and the passenger planned to depart on a cross-country personal flight; the density 
altitude was about 9,500 ft mean sea level. During the pretakeoff engine run-up, the engine began 
running roughly. The pilot and a mechanic attempted to troubleshoot the engine issue by checking the 
dual magneto. According to the mechanic, the left magneto was inoperative and the P-leads were wired 
incorrectly; he then disconnected both magnetos' P-leads. The pilot's second and third engine run-ups 
appeared to produce full engine power when he adjusted the fuel mixture; however with an inoperative 
left magneto it is unlikely that full power was achieved. The pilot departed and was unable to maintain 
altitude and chose to land in a field adjacent to the airport; the airplane stalled just above the ground and 
then impacted the ground. 
During a postaccident examination of the airplane, the left magneto was removed and tested; the left 
magneto did not produce a spark at any terminal, and the contact points did not open. In addition, the 
spark plugs connected to the left magneto did not exhibit signs of recent operation, which was consistent 
with an inoperative magneto. The disconnected P-leads would not have affected the right magneto's 
ability to energize half of the spark plugs. With an inoperative left magneto and a high density altitude, 
the available engine power would have been reduced, and the airplane's climb performance would have 
been degraded. The reduction in the available engine power, combined with the high-density altitude at 
the time of takeoff, resulted in the airplane's inability to maintain a positive rate of climb after lifting off.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's decision to depart with an inoperative left magneto, which resulted in degraded climb 
performance in high-density altitude conditions and a subsequent emergency landing. 
