Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Minneapolis, Minnesota
Accident Number:
CEN18LA349
Date & Time:
August 23, 2018, 11:06 Local 
Registration:
N215SF
Aircraft:
North American T-28B
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Sys/Comp malf/fail (non-power)
Injuries:
1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot stated that he received a generator failure annunciation while en route and decided to return to 
the departure airport. During the approach, the pilot opened the canopy after severe smoke entered in the 
cockpit. The pilot stated there was a heavy spray of fuel during the downwind leg of the approach that 
ignited during the base leg of the approach. During the final leg, when the airplane was about 150-200 ft 
above ground level, he determined that he could not reach the runway due to the severe fire. He pushed 
the airplane nose down about 20-25°, and the airplane impacted the ground short of the runway. The 
airplane was destroyed by impact forces and a postcrash fire. Postaccident examination of a fabric 
sample from the pilot's flight suit revealed stains that were consistent with hydraulic fluid. Postaccident 
examination of the airplane revealed the engine was separated from the airframe, and the propeller was 
separated from the engine. The propeller blades displayed features consistent with engine power. Fire 
consumed most of the cockpit area and underlying systems between the firewall and aft cockpit. Due to 
the fire damage, the ignition source and the flammable source could not be determined. The pilot did not 
perform an emergency shut down of the electrical system and/or engine after the generator failure 
annunciation as indicated in the airplane flight manual. However, the effect of the pilot not performing 
the airplane emergency procedures for smoke and fire is unknown because the timing in which the 
procedures would have to be performed, the flammable source location, and the kind of ignition source 
are unknown.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The fire during approach for reasons that could not be determined based on the available evidence, 
which resulted in impact with terrain during approach for a precautionary landing.
