Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Quincy, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA18LA229
Date & Time:
August 24, 2018, 12:35 Local 
Registration:
N773CB
Aircraft:
Beech A36
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel related
Injuries:
1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot performed a preflight inspection of the airplane and engine run-up with no discrepancies. 
During the takeoff, about 125 ft above ground level with the landing gear extended, the pilot reported 
that the engine suddenly lost total power. The pilot did not have adequate time to troubleshoot the loss 
of power before performing a forced landing, during which the airplane impacted a tree. Although the 
pilot recalled departing with the fuel selector on the left tank position and he did not report changing it 
during the flight, it was found in the right tank position after the accident. 
Examination of the airframe and engine fuel system components revealed minimal or no fuel in the fuel 
pumps and throttle body. This finding was supported by decreased fuel flow recorded by the engine 
monitor and was consistent with fuel starvation; however, the reason for the decreased fuel flow could 
not be determined. Examination of the fuel vent system for the left and right fuel tanks revealed that 
both were free of obstructions from one of the vents into each respective tank, and the fuel supply 
system from each wing fuel tank to the engine were also clear for either fuel selector position. Water 
found in the right fuel tank was consistent with the fire department using water to extinguish fires started 
during the recovery process. A test run of the engine revealed no anomalies that would have precluded 
normal operation.
The mixture lever at the metering valve was impact damaged and loose and exhibited evidence of 
smearing damage to a section of the brass lever; however, the smearing was not along the entire 
periphery. Therefore, there was no evidence that the mixture control lever was rotating in relation to the 
stem of the mixture control shaft.
Probable Cause and Findings
