Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Island Pond, Vermont
Accident Number:
ERA18FA232
Date & Time:
August 25, 2018, 15:20 Local 
Registration:
N6936B
Aircraft:
Piper PA22
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot was landing his airplane at his home airport at the conclusion of a local flight. The 
airplane was last seen flying normally on the left downwind leg of the airport traffic pattern, and the 
wreckage was subsequently discovered in a location consistent with a turn from the downwind to base 
leg of the traffic pattern. The airplane and engine sustained extensive impact damage and postimpact fire 
damage; however, examination revealed no discrepancies that would have precluded normal operation. 
A friend of the pilot, who flew with him often, said that the pilot tended to turn from the downwind leg 
onto the base leg of the traffic pattern "quite steep" (about 40° bank) and slow (62-63 knots). The friend 
said that he shared his concerns about stalling with the pilot, but the pilot did not share the same 
concern. The airplane was not equipped with a stall warning horn or angle of attack indicator.
Postmortem toxicology testing revealed the presence of several medications, including 
diphenhydramine, a sedating antihistamine; however, given the low levels identified, there was no 
evidence that the pilot was impaired by his use of diphenhydramine or that it contributed to the accident.
Given the amount of fuel onboard and the duration of the flight, it is unlikely that the airplane ran out of 
fuel. Although there were no witnesses to the accident, given the location of the accident site, lack of 
preimpact mechanical anomalies, and the pilot's reported habit of conducting traffic pattern turns at a 
slow speed in a steep bank, it is likely that the pilot exceeded the airplane's critical angle of attack while 
maneuvering for landing, which resulted in an aerodynamic stall and subsequent impact with terrain.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's exceedance of the airplane's critical angle of attack while maneuvering for landing, 
which resulted in an aerodynamic stall.
