Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Afton, Wyoming
Accident Number:
WPR18LA241
Date & Time:
August 13, 2018, 09:08 Local 
Registration:
N5660J
Aircraft:
Cessna 172
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Controlled flight into terr/obj (CFIT)
Injuries:
3 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Aerial observation
Analysis 
An airline transport pilot and two passengers departed on an aerial observation flight in mountainous 
terrain. While flying in a valley, the pilot reported that he experienced downdrafts, which made it 
unlikely that the airplane would clear the ridge lines in front of the airplane. The pilot performed a steep 
180° left turn to exit from the high terrain. However, after completing the turn, the airplane was unable 
to climb over terrain and struck several trees before impacting the ground, which resulted in substantial 
damage to the wings and fuselage.  
The pilot reported no preaccident mechanical failures or malfunctions with the airplane that would have 
precluded normal operation.
The airplane's weight and balance was calculated as about 256 pounds below the maximum gross weight 
limit, and the density altitude at the accident was calculated as about 8,765 ft mean sea level (msl). A 
weather study of the accident area identified no significant winds, turbulence, or low-level wind shear 
present or forecast. The study did identify a surface-based inversion that existed to about 500 ft above 
ground level (agl). Additionally, another pilot in a different airplane stated that moderate turbulence was 
present near the accident area about 18 minutes before the accident. 
Due to a combination of the airplane's high gross weight, a high-density altitude, a temperature 
inversion, maneuvering at a steep bank in order to avoid high terrain, and with potential downdrafts, the 
pilot dissipated the airplane's airspeed and altitude, and approached a stall. With no altitude available to 
increase the airspeed after the left turn and already at full power, the airplane continued to descend until 
it struck trees and impacted terrain.
Probable Cause and Findings
