Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Hanson, Massachusetts
Accident Number:
ERA18TA236
Date & Time:
August 27, 2018, 12:50 Local 
Registration:
N3115R
Aircraft:
Cessna 182
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Runway excursion
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Skydiving
Analysis 
The commercial pilot reported that during the airplane's initial climb for the local skydiving flight, the 
radio stopped working. He continued climbing to 7,500 ft to allow skydivers to depart the airplane, 
noted that the engine was running roughly at that time, then circled down over the airport. The pilot 
reported that his approach was "a little faster and higher than normal" and that he landed longer than 
usual but chose not to execute a go-around because of the rough-running engine. Surveillance video and 
witnesses indicated that the airplane touched down near the midpoint of the 1,760-ft-long runway with a 
quartering tailwind. The airplane's tires left over 500 ft of skid marks before the airplane overran the 
departure end of the runway, encountered a ditch, nosed over, and came to rest inverted 183 ft beyond 
the departure end of the runway.
Postaccident testing of the brakes showed that they were operational and did not reveal evidence of any 
preimpact mechanical malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation. In addition, 
postaccident examination of the engine revealed no evidence of any preimpact mechanical malfunctions 
or failures that would have precluded normal engine operation, except that the alternator belt was found 
off of its pulleys. However, the airplane's battery still indicated a normal voltage, and the airplane's flaps 
were found extended, indicating that the airplane's electrical system was still functional throughout the 
landing attempt. Despite the condition of the alternator belt, the airplane's engine never ceased 
producing power. The pilot should have been able to perform a normal landing but instead performed a 
faster and higher approach than normal and failed to attain the proper touchdown point.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to attain the proper touchdown point, which resulted in a runway overrun. 
Contributing to the accident was the pilot's decision to land with a quartering tailwind.
