Page 1 of 13
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Prescott, Arizona
Accident Number:
WPR18FA245
Date & Time:
August 29, 2018, 20:35 Local 
Registration:
N6500W
Aircraft:
Cessna P210
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Controlled flight into terr/obj (CFIT)
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The purpose of the flight was for the pilot to acquire night currency by performing practice takeoffs and 
landings. He initially requested to takeoff and fly the traffic pattern for the longer, 150-ft wide runway 
(21L), but the ground controller replied that the traffic pattern was full and offered that the pilot could 
use the parallel, shorter 60-ft wide runway (21R). Once airborne, the pilot did not fly a traffic pattern 
that paralleled runway 21R on downwind and he overshot the final approach course on his base-to-final 
turn. The pilot subsequently corrected his track and became aligned for runway 21R, but airplane 
collided with desert terrain about 1,900 ft short of the destination runway, impacting in a near level-pitch 
attitude with the landing gear down. The airplane impacted a berm and shortly thereafter, was destroyed 
by a postcrash fire. 
Although visual meteorological conditions prevailed, no natural horizon and few external visual 
references were available during the visual approach in dark night conditions to judge height above 
terrain. The pilot's tasks during the approach included maintaining visual separation from the traffic on 
runway 21L and aligning with the much narrower runway 21R. The pilot’s collision with terrain short of 
the runway suggests that he was experiencing the runway width illusion in which the sight picture to a 
narrow runway during a nighttime approach can lead pilots to believe their approach path is too high and 
they descend in an attempt to correct. The runway had a precision approach path indicator (PAPI) 
system to help pilots maintain a safe glidepath at night. The pilot’s competing visual task demands 
including traffic and runway alignment and recency of nighttime experience may have contributed to his 
failure to heed this information. 
Examination of the recovered wreckage did not reveal evidence of any preexisting mechanical 
anomalies that would have precluded normal operation of the airplane. Examination of the airplane's 
exhaust revealed a crack that would have likely been present during the most recent maintenance. 
However, although the heat exchanger contained voids, that was likely not an entry for the exhaust gases 
because the higher pressure of the ram air that is directed into the exchanger. 
