Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Fort Walton Beach, Florida
Accident Number:
CEN18FA358
Date & Time:
August 30, 2018, 10:30 Local 
Registration:
N1876L
Aircraft:
Beech B60
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Controlled flight into terr/obj (CFIT)
Injuries:
4 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The commercial pilot and three passengers departed on a cross-country flight in a twin-engine airplane. 
As the flight neared the destination airport, the pilot canceled his instrument flight rules (IFR) clearance. 
The approach controller transferred the flight to the tower controller, and the pilot reported to the tower 
controller that the airplane was about 2 miles from the airport. However, the approach controller 
contacted the tower controller to report that the airplane was 200 ft over a nearby joint military airport at 
the time. GPS data revealed that, when pilot reported that the airplane was 2 miles from the destination 
airport, the airplane's actual location was about 10 miles from the destination airport and 2 miles from 
the joint military airport. The airplane impacted a remote wooded area about 8 miles northwest of the 
destination airport.
At the time of the accident, thunderstorm cells were in the area. A review of the weather information 
revealed that the pilot's view of the airport was likely obscured because the airplane was in an area of 
light precipitation, restricting the pilot's visibility.
A review of airport information noted that the IFR approach course for the destination airport passes 
over the joint military airport. The Federal Aviation Administration chart supplement for the destination 
airport noted the airport's proximity to the other airport. However, it is likely that the pilot mistook the 
other airport for the destination airport due to reduced visibility because of weather. The accident 
circumstances were consistent with controlled flight into terrain.
The ethanol detected in the pilot's blood specimens but not in his urine specimens was consistent with 
postmortem bacteria production. The carbon monoxide and cyanide detected in the pilot's blood 
specimens were consistent with inhalation after the postimpact fire.
Probable Cause and Findings
