Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Tat Momoli, Arizona
Accident Number:
WPR18LA248
Date & Time:
August 28, 2018, 18:40 Local 
Registration:
N4139A
Aircraft:
Piper PA28
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Powerplant sys/comp malf/fail
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot reported that during the cross-country flight, the engine experienced a total loss of power. The 
pilot initiated a forced landing to a nearby road where, during the landing roll, the airplane impacted a 
barbed wire fence, resulting in substantial damage to the right wing. 
Postaccident examination revealed a large hole in the engine case at the No. 4 cylinder that exposed the 
crankshaft and connecting rod. The No. 4 cylinder was seized, and the connecting rod was fractured at 
the piston end. Further examination revealed that the connecting rod fractured from a fatigue crack in 
the bore on the piston end, which likely initiated at an internal corner of the bore. The fatigue crack 
progressed through most of the pin bore cross-section. Following the fracture of the connecting rod, the 
continued movement of the broken part led to subsequent overstress fractures and damage to nearby 
components, which resulted in catastrophic engine failure and a complete seizure of the engine. 
The cause of the fatigue crack initiation could not be determined, as both the initiation site (or sites) and 
the termination of the fatigue crack were destroyed by postfracture impact damage. The general location 
of the initiation, the internal corner of the pin bore, suggested the presence of concentrated stress in that 
location, which could have been the result of a material defect, such as a pore, inclusion, or corrosion pit 
that may have occurred when the connecting rod was rebushed. A crack initiation could also have been 
the result of improper sizing of the internal bushing, improper installation of the connecting rod, or use 
of the wrong parts. The engine was overhauled 42 flight hours before the accident. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
