Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
St Ignace, Michigan
Accident Number:
CEN18FA368
Date & Time:
August 31, 2018, 21:45 Local 
Registration:
N500MJ
Aircraft:
Piper PA32RT
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The instrument-rated pilot took off in dark night conditions over a lake that bordered the departure end 
of the runway. The airport manager witnessed the airplane depart and reported that the takeoff sounded 
normal. Two witnesses who were facing the lake reported that they observed an aircraft take off from 
the airport, and fly about 100 to 200 ft above the lake surface. It then banked to the right and 
disappeared from sight. About 10 to 15 seconds later, the witnesses heard what sounded like a crash into 
the water or an explosion. There were no distress radio calls from the pilot and there was no radar 
information for the flight. The airport manager and first responders reported that it was a very dark night 
and that there was no distinguishable horizon.
Examination of the airframe and engine did not reveal any preimpact anomalies that would have 
precluded normal operation, and evidence was consistent with a slight right wing down, nose low, high 
speed impact with the water. A right turn would have been necessary at some point after takeoff to fly 
towards the destination airport and evidence is consistent that a right turn had been initiated. Although 
the reason for the impact with the water could not be determined, the overwater departure in dark night 
conditions would not have provided adequate visual cues to assure a positive rate of climb during the 
departure and initial turnout on course as a pilot would be vulnerable to illusions if flight instruments 
were not used to conduct the takeoff and initial climb.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to maintain sufficient&nbsp;altitude after takeoff in dark night conditions 
which resulted in a collision with the water.
