Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Crete, Nebraska
Accident Number:
CEN18LA363
Date & Time:
September 1, 2018, 09:00 Local 
Registration:
N210PF
Aircraft:
Cessna P210N
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Low altitude operation/event
Injuries:
2 Serious, 2 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot started the "turbo-normalized" 310-horsepower engine, but then it stopped. He stated that he 
used the low-pressure boost pump to restart the engine and then turned off the boost pump after it had 
started. He indicated that he completed an engine run-up before takeoff and that the engine was 
operating normally. The airplane traveled about halfway down the runway before it became airborne. 
When the airplane had a positive rate of climb, the pilot raised the landing gear and flaps. He stated that 
when the airplane was about 500 ft above ground level, he heard the engine "miss," and the engine did 
not seem to be producing total power. He turned on the low-pressure boost pump and turned back 
toward the airport, but the engine eventually lost total power. He performed a gear-up forced landing to 
a cornfield; the airplane impacted the ground hard and slid through the cornfield on its belly. 
A witness who watched the airplane take off reported that the airplane sounded like it was full throttle 
but was "overweight sounding" during the takeoff. He reported that the airplane "finally got in the air at 
the end of the runway." He stated that it was "running rich" and that he could see "dark exhaust" trailing 
the airplane during the takeoff. The airplane veered to the right, and he lost sight of it behind a tree line. 
An engine monitor installed on the airplane indicated that the manifold pressure reached 37 inches of 
mercury (inHg) and fuel flow reached 48 gallons of fuel per hour (gph) during takeoff. The pilot 
operating handbook for the supplemental type certificated engine stated that the full rated horsepower is 
achieved at 31 inHg of manifold pressure and that full throttle fuel flow during takeoff is 35-37 gph.
The engine was run on the engine manufacturer's test cell and operated within normal operating 
specifications. There were no mechanical malfunctions or failures with the turbocharger controller, 
wastegate actuator, pressure relief valve, manifold pressure transducer, and fuel flow transmitter that 
would have precluded normal operation.
However, a static demonstration run on the same airplane model/engine conversion, with the oil line 
from the wastegate to the wastegate controller disconnected to simulate a wastegate stuck in the closed 
