Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Pacoima, California
Accident Number:
WPR18FA249
Date & Time:
September 3, 2018, 17:10 Local 
Registration:
N10789
Aircraft:
Cessna 150L
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel exhaustion
Injuries:
1 Fatal, 1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Other work use
Analysis 
The flight instructor and passenger were conducting a local area discovery flight. About 50 seconds after 
the airplane was cleared for takeoff, the instructor transmitted to the tower controller, that he needed to 
turn back. The tower controller then cleared the airplane to land; no further communication was received 
from the instructor.
A video recording from a GoPro camera mounted in the cockpit provided an over-the-shoulder view of 
the airplane occupants and instrument panel during the flight; there was no audio. The video revealed 
that, after an uneventful taxi and run-up, the instructor taxied the airplane onto the runway and, with his 
hands still on the yoke, the passenger advanced the throttle to start the takeoff roll. The airplane became 
airborne, and about 20 ft above ground level (agl), the instructor removed his hands from the yoke to 
allow the passenger to fly. Two seconds later, the airplane's nose dropped, and the instructor put his 
right hand on the yoke and left hand on the throttle; the rpm gauge indicated between 2,200 and 2,300 
rpm. The instructor then appeared to verify that the throttle was at full power and that the mixture was 
full rich. When the airplane was about 50 ft agl, the instructor quickly pulled back the throttle, and the 
rpm dropped to 1,300. He then increased the throttle to full power, and the rpm increased to 2,200 rpm. 
The instructor then initiated a left bank turn, and the airplane subsequently pitched up and banked left 
about 15째 to 20째. The airspeed began to slow, and the ball in the turn-and-slip indicator showed an 
almost full-right deflection. The instructor continued to pull the yoke aft as the airspeed continued to 
decrease throughout the turn. The airplane subsequently entered a left spin from about 50 ft agl, turned 
about 270째, and then impacted the overhang of a building about 500 ft adjacent to the departure end of 
the runway. 
Witnesses reported seeing the airplane shortly after takeoff. One witness reported that the engine 
sounded abnormal, "like it was sputtering." Another witness reported seeing the airplane "at a very low 
altitude" and descending rapidly and the wings "dipping side to side." Subsequently, the airplane rolled 
180째 and descended nose down. Another witness reported seeing the airplane enter a left spiraling turn. 
