Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Yuma, Arizona
Accident Number:
WPR18LA250
Date & Time:
August 27, 2018, 10:36 Local 
Registration:
N8162H
Aircraft:
Stoddard Hamilton GLASAIR 
SUPER IIS
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot reported that, about 35 minutes into the personal cross-country flight, the experimental, 
amateur-built airplane's alternator field toggle switch/circuit breaker tripped. He reset the switch, and all 
systems appeared normal. About 5 minutes later, the switch tripped again, and the pilot cycled the 
switch. About 2 minutes later, the pilot noticed that the engine manifold pressure was dropping, along 
with the airplane's airspeed, consistent with a partial loss of engine power. The engine then experienced 
a total loss of power when he was maneuvering for an emergency landing to a nearby airport. The 
airplane subsequently landed short of the runway and sustained substantial damage to the aft fuselage. 
The engine had been installed about 91 flight hours and 5 months before the accident flight, and a 
condition inspection was completed the same month of installation. Maintenance records indicated that 
during the period between the engine installation and the accident, maintenance was limited to routine 
oil changes, magneto timing adjustments, the replacement of exhaust gas temperature and cylinder head 
temperature probes, and the installation of a replacement alternator. 
Postaccident examination of the engine revealed that the throttle linkage had detached from the throttle 
arm of the fuel injection servo. The rod end bearing for the linkage and the throttle arm were intact and 
undamaged, but the connecting bolt and its associated washers, castellated nut, and cotter pin were 
missing. The butterfly valve within the throttle body was in the closed position, and the throttle lever in 
the cabin was in the full forward (open) position. It is likely that the bolt securing the linkage had not 
been sufficiently tightened and secured with a cotter pin during the installation and that the error was not 
detected during the subsequent condition inspection.
The investigation determined that the electrical system malfunction was unrelated to the loss of engine 
power.
