Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Los Angeles, California
Accident Number:
DCA18CA283
Date & Time:
August 13, 2018, 04:45 Local 
Registration:
N204HA
Aircraft:
Airbus A321-271N
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Abnormal runway contact
Injuries:
197 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 121: Air carrier - Scheduled
Analysis 
On August 13, 2018, about 1645 pacific daylight time, Hawaiian Airlines flight 56, an Airbus A321, 
N204HA, experienced a tail strike during landing at Los Angeles International Airport (KLAX), Los 
Angeles, California.  There were no injuries to the 197 passengers and crew onboard. The airplane 
sustained substantial damage. The domestic passenger flight was operating under 14 Code of Federal 
Regulations Part 121 from Kahului Airport (PHOG), Kahului, Hawaii, to KLAX.
The first officer (FO) was the pilot flying and the captain was the pilot monitoring. According to the 
flight crew, they received a GPWS Fail message on the electronic centralized alert monitoring (ECAM) 
at about 1,500 feet altitude above the ground (agl) after the airplane was established on the ILS 6R 
approach.  The flight crew conducted the appropriate ECAM actions, which only required them to turn 
off the ground proximity warning system (GPWS) and continued the approach. As the airplane 
descended through about 50 feet agl, the FO realized the electronic automatic altitude callouts were not 
being provided by the airplane system but did not have time to react. The airplane touched down 
firmly, bounced, and the pitch attitude increased before it was arrested by the FO, resulting in the 
tail section contacting the runway. Post flight examination of the airplane found damage to the aft lower 
skin, as well as several deformed stringers, tie clips, and frames. During the approach, the crew did not 
receive any automated altitude callouts that are determined by the radio altimeter (RA). The crew only 
received the “100 above” and “minimums” callouts, both of which are based on barometric altitude. 
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed with light winds at the time of the approach resulting in the 
airplane descending over calm water. In February 2018 (updated on August 6, 2018) the manufacturer 
released a Flight Operations Transmission (FOT) and an Operations Engineering Bulletin in July 2018 
referencing “No RA Available During Approach Over Water”. The FOT indicated that a new RA had 
abnormal behavior if the airplane approach is over a flat-water area and may not be available.  
Subsequent to the accident, the operator issued a Memorandum to Pilots that described the 
circumstances of the accident and the FOT and issued an Operations Engineering Bulletin, which 
detailed the required procedures if no RA is available. 
