Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Palo Alto, California
Accident Number:
WPR18FA251
Date & Time:
September 4, 2018, 11:00 Local 
Registration:
N701JM
Aircraft:
Mooney M20J
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
1 Fatal, 1 Serious, 1 
Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was flying two passengers on an Angel Flight. When the airplane was about 10 miles north of 
the destination, the pilot contacted the air traffic control tower (ATCT). He was given instructions to fly 
to a charted VFR checkpoint, but then reported that he was not familiar with it and asked for directions 
from the controller. The pilot navigated to that checkpoint after several communications, and was then 
instructed to overfly a second checkpoint, about 2.5 miles north of the runway, as his left base leg for the 
arrival. The pilot was unable to locate the airport and requested ATCT assistance to advise him when to 
turn final, which the controller did. The pilot saw the airport and continued the approach. 
Witnesses observed the airplane touch down about mid-field and began to porpoise, alternately bouncing 
between the main and nose landing gear. After 3 to 4 oscillations, the pilot initiated a go-around and 
reported to the controller of the go-around. In response, the controller instructed the pilot to make a left 
closed traffic and asked if he needed assistance, to which the pilot replied “negative, I just came in too 
fast." The airplane climbed a few hundred feet and was then observed to enter a very steep left bank. 
The nose pitched sharply down, and the airplane descended rapidly to the ground. Examinations of the 
airplane and engine did not reveal any evidence of any pre-impact mechanical deficiencies or failures. 
Physical examination of the engine and propeller, combined with review of recorded engine operating 
parameter data, indicated that the engine operated normally, and was producing power at impact. 
The pilot’s logbook indicated that he had flown into that airport at least 32 times before, and therefore 
he should have been familiar with both the physical location of the airport and the names and locations 
of the local navigation fixes. Even if he had never been into that airport before, proper preflight planning 
dictates that he should have become familiar with those aspects. 
Data downloaded from the onboard GPS device revealed the airplane was about 10 to 15 knots above 
the manufacturer's approach speed (75 knots for the calculated landing weight) during final approach. 
