Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
New York, New York
Accident Number:
DCA18LA285
Date & Time:
September 6, 2018, 12:45 Local 
Registration:
N173AN
Aircraft:
Boeing 757
Aircraft Damage:
None
Defining Event:
Abrupt maneuver
Injuries:
1 Serious, 2 Minor, 
110 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 121: Air carrier - Scheduled
Analysis 
The airplane was descending toward the destination airport with the autopilot and autothrottle 
systems engaged. As the airplane was approaching 12,000 ft, and the autopilot was capturing 
the altitude, the captain adjusted the altimeter resulting in a displayed altitude of 12,100 ft. The 
captain (the pilot flying) selected flight level change mode on the autopilot to recapture the 
altitude and set the speed at 250 knots to slow from about 255 knots. As a result, the 
autothrottles went to Throttle Hold mode when the throttle levers reached the aft stop. As the 
captain was briefing the approach, the airplane slowed and pitched up as it tried to maintain 
altitude with a reduced throttle setting. An international relief officer who was in the cockpit at 
the time commented on the airplane’s decreasing speed three times when the airplane’s 
airspeed was about 186 knots before stating that the captain should push the nose over. The 
captain disengaged the autopilot and auto throttles, aggressively pitched down, and increased 
the throttles. These aggressive maneuvers caused the flight attendants in the aft galley to be 
thrown against the ceiling. One flight attendant sustained a compound arm fracture; two other 
flight attendants sustained minor injuries. The crew subsequently landed the airplane without 
further incident.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The flight crew’s failure to adequately monitor the airplane’s airspeed, which led to the 
captain’s aggressive control inputs to increase airspeed; these aggressive inputs resulted in 
injuries to three cabin crewmembers.
