Page 1 of 13
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Port Huron, Michigan
Accident Number:
CEN18FA371
Date & Time:
September 5, 2018, 23:47 Local 
Registration:
C-GLKX
Aircraft:
Cessna 340A
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel starvation
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation
Analysis 
The private pilot of the multi-engine airplane was conducting an instrument approach during night visual 
meteorological conditions. About 1.3 nautical miles (nm) from the final approach fix, the right engine 
lost total power. The pilot continued the approach and notified air traffic control of the loss of power 
about 1 minute and 13 seconds later. Subsequently, the pilot contacted the controller again and reported 
that he was unable to activate the airport's pilot-controlled runway lighting. In the pilot's last radio 
transmission, he indicated that he was over the airport and was going to "reshoot that approach." The last 
radar return indicated that the airplane was about 450 ft above ground level at 72 kts groundspeed. The 
airplane impacted the ground in a steep, vertical nose-down attitude about 1/2 nm from the departure 
end of the runway. Examination of the wreckage revealed that the landing gear and the flaps were 
extended and that the right propeller was not feathered. Data from onboard the airplane also indicated 
that the pilot did not secure the right engine following the loss of power; the left engine continued to 
produce power until impact. 
The airplane's fuel system held a total of 203 gallons. Fuel consumption calculations estimated that there 
should have been about 100 gallons remaining at the time of the accident. The right-wing locker fuel 
tank remained intact and contained about 14 gallons of fuel. Fuel blight in the grass was observed at the 
accident site and the blight associated with the right wing likely emanated from the right-wing tip tank. 
The elevator trim tab was found in the full nose-up position but was most likely pulled into this position 
when the empennage separated from the aft pressure bulkhead during impact. Examination of the 
airframe and engine revealed no evidence of mechanical malfunctions or failures that would have 
precluded normal operation. 
Although there was adequate fuel on board the airplane, the pilot may have inadvertently moved the 
right fuel selector to the OFF position or an intermediate position in preparation for landing instead of 
selecting the right wing fuel tank, or possibly ran the right auxiliary fuel tank dry, which resulted in fuel 
starvation to the right engine and a total loss of power. The airplane manufacturer's Pilot Operating 
Handbook (POH) stated that the 20-gallon right- and left-wing locker fuel tanks should be used after 90 
minutes of flight. However, 14 gallons of fuel were found in the right-wing locker fuel tank which 
