Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Lake Worth, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA18FA244
Date & Time:
September 9, 2018, 10:37 Local 
Registration:
N2707J
Aircraft:
Cessna 335
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot, who was the owner of the airplane, was conducting a personal cross-country flight with one 
passenger. Recorded engine data indicated that, about 9 miles from the destination airport, the left 
engine lost all power for about 2 minutes. Power was restored for about 2 minutes before it was lost 
again as the airplane was on a left downwind leg abeam the approach end of the runway. The right 
engine's power output remained relatively constant for the remainder of the flight. The airplane 
continued the downwind leg for about 20 seconds, then began a left descending 180° turn. Data 
recovered from the primary flight display indicated that, at the end of this turn, the airspeed decreased to 
73 knots (kts), below the airplane's published minimum control speed of 83 kts, and the airplane rolled 
inverted and descended into the ground.
The pilot did not hold a valid pilot certificate at the time of the accident, as his certificate had been 
revoked about 21 years earlier. Although the pilot had owned the airplane for about 7 years, he had 
logged only 1.8 hours in the preceding eight months, and 6.4 hours during the prior calendar year. The 
most recent documented practice of one engine inoperative (OEI) procedures was over 6 years before 
the accident, and there was no record of any flight reviews in his logbook; therefore, it is unlikely that 
the pilot was proficient in the procedures associated with OEI at the time of the accident, which included 
the criticality of maintaining minimum control speed (Vmc) and not turning into the nonoperational 
engine.
Examination of both engines revealed no anomalies that would have precluded normal operation and the 
right engine's recorded data parameters and propeller exhibited signatures consistent with the engine 
operating until impact. Although the engine monitor's recorded parameters indicated the left engine lost 
power immediately before the accident, it lacked sufficient parameters to determine why the loss of 
engine power occurred. Given the available fuel onboard, the airplane had adequate fuel to complete the 
accident flight; however, the pilot's management of the fuel during the flight and whether it contributed 
to the loss of left engine power could not be determined.
Although autopsy of the pilot revealed evidence of severe coronary artery disease, the recorded flight 
