Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Mason City, Iowa
Accident Number:
GAA18CA545
Date & Time:
September 8, 2018, 11:45 Local 
Registration:
N669HT
Aircraft:
Cirrus SR22
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control on ground
Injuries:
2 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot reported that the battery was too low to start the engine, so he asked fixed-base operator 
personnel if they could assist with a jumper pack. They told him that they did not have anyone on duty 
authorized to assist and that he would have to wait a couple of days. He decided to start the engine by 
hand propping. Before he began hand propping, he set the parking brake. Following the engine start, the 
airplane began to move forward. The pilot attempted to re-enter the airplane to apply the brakes, but the 
airplane struck a hangar. 
The airplane sustained substantial damage to the left wing.
The Federal Aviation Administration inspector who examined the airplane after the accident reported 
that the parking brake functioned normally. He added that the pilot stated that he was sure he set the 
brakes but that he may not have gotten enough pressure to hold the airplane. 
The Federal Aviation Administration's Airplane Flying Handbook, FAA-H-8083-3A, contained a 
section titled "Hand Propping" which states the following:
An engine should not be hand propped unless two people, both familiar with the airplane and hand 
propping techniques, are available to perform the procedure. The person pulling the propeller blades 
through directs all activity and is in charge of the procedure. The other person, thoroughly familiar with 
the controls, must be seated in the airplane with the brakes set. As an additional precaution, chocks may 
be placed in front of the main wheels. If this is not feasible, the airplane's tail may be securely tied. 
Never allow a person unfamiliar with the controls to occupy the pilot's seat when hand propping. The 
procedure should never be attempted alone. 
Probable Cause and Findings
