Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Warthen, Georgia
Accident Number:
ERA18TA250
Date & Time:
September 14, 2018, 10:20 Local 
Registration:
N9218L
Aircraft:
American Aviation AA1
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel exhaustion
Injuries:
2 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The commercial pilot reported that, on the day of the accident, he filled each tank of the newly 
purchased airplane with 12.5 gallons of fuel. On his first flight, after about 20 minutes of flying, he 
noticed he was running out of fuel. The pilot thought the fuel burn was very high and decided to land at 
the nearest airport; he added about 24 gallons of fuel. After departure and about 30 minutes of flying, he 
again noticed that the airplane was running out of fuel. He planned to land at the nearest airport; 
however, about 15 miles away from the airport, the engine lost total power. The pilot switched fuel tanks 
and turned on the electric boost pump, and the engine restarted. A few minutes later, the engine lost total 
power again. The pilot noticed both fuel tanks were out of fuel. During a forced landing in a field, the 
airframe was substantially damaged. 
Postaccident examination of the engine revealed that the carburetor float bowl plug was missing, which 
allowed fuel to leak out of the carburetor. Thus, the airplane's fuel consumption during the flight would 
have increased substantially and likely resulted in exhaustion of the airplane's available fuel supply at a 
greater-than-normal rate. Although the pilot reported that the airplane was recently inspected before he 
purchased it, no maintenance records were available for review, so the scope of work done to, or 
inspections of, the carburetor could not be determined. Further, the pilot's decision to depart on the 
accident flight leg after noting excessive fuel consumption on the previous leg contributed to the 
accident.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
