Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Woburn, Massachusetts
Accident Number:
ERA18FA251
Date & Time:
September 15, 2018, 11:03 Local 
Registration:
N2536T
Aircraft:
COLUMBIA AIRCRAFT Mfg LC41
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The instrument-rated pilot and one passenger were approaching the destination airport following an 
instrument flight rules cross-country flight in instrument meteorological conditions; the reported weather 
at the destination included ceilings between 400 and 600 ft above ground level and visibility of 2 miles 
in mist. The controller cleared the airplane for the instrument landing system (ILS) approach; the pilot 
intercepted the localizer and immediately descended below the minimum altitude he was required to 
maintain prior to crossing the final approach fix (FAF). The controller issued a low altitude alert as the 
airplane was crossing the FAF about 700 ft below the minimum altitude. The pilot responded that he 
was climbing; he did not report any problems or issues with his airplane to the controller. The airplane 
then drifted right of the localizer course and the controller advised the pilot of such, but there was no 
response. The airplane subsequently proceeded left of the localizer course, after which the controller 
issued another low altitude alert and asked the pilot if he was still on the approach. The pilot responded 
that he was not on the approach and that he was "pulling." During the final minute of the flight, the 
airplane was observed in rapid, turning climbs and descents until radar contact was lost.
The airplane impacted terrain about 4.2 miles east-southeast of the airport. Accident site evidence and 
impact damage to the airplane were indicative of a high-velocity impact. Examination of the wreckage 
revealed no evidence of any preimpact mechanical anomalies, and analysis of a video doorbell that 
captured audio of the airplane in flight revealed an engine speed consistent with high power.
The reduced visibility conditions present at the time of the accident and the high workload associated 
with the instrument approach were conducive to the onset of pilot spatial disorientation, and the 
airplane's erratic maneuvering and the high-energy impact are both consistent with the known effects of 
spatial disorientation. Therefore, it is likely that the pilot became spatially disoriented during the 
instrument approach, which resulted in a loss of airplane control.
Probable Cause and Findings
