Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Montauk, New York
Accident Number:
ERA18LA253
Date & Time:
September 16, 2018, 16:06 Local 
Registration:
N161DL
Aircraft:
Cirrus SR22
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control on ground
Injuries:
1 Minor, 1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot was taking off for a personal, cross-country flight. He reported that, at rotation, the 
pilot's seat "abruptly slid backwards to the outermost distance from the controls." As a result, the pilot 
could no longer reach the pedals to maintain directional control, and his aileron input could not 
counteract the airplane's left-turning tendency. The airplane subsequently departed the left side of the 
runway, struck trees and shrubs, and then came to rest upright. The wings, fuselage, and empennage 
sustained substantial damage.
 
According to the pilot, except for the pilot seat, the airplane performed as designed with no other 
anomalies noted. Examination of the pilot's seat revealed no anomalies with the installation, dimensions, 
or operation. The seat moved freely fore and aft with no binding or anomalous operation noted. During 
postaccident functional testing of the seat, when twisting forces to the right were applied to the seat and 
while being slid forward, the seat position locking pin could be partially engaged, but not all the pins 
would seat, and the control handle would not go fully down nor could it be forced into position. 
Straightening or forward movement of the seat resulted in full pin engagement with the control handle in 
the fully down position. Given this information, it is likely that the pilot applied a twisting force when 
moving the seat and did not fully engage the seat position locking pins before initiating the takeoff, 
which resulted in the seat subsequently sliding back as the airplane accelerated during takeoff and the 
pilot's subsequent loss of directional control.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to properly secure his seat before initiating the takeoff, which resulted in the 
