Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Sugar Land, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN18LA382
Date & Time:
September 19, 2018, 15:04 Local 
Registration:
N247F
Aircraft:
Cessna 206
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
1 Minor, 2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Public aircraft
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot and the flight instructor were conducting an instructional flight in a public 
aircraft with an observer on board and proceeded to an airport to conduct instrument approaches. After 
crossing the final approach fix and before arriving at the missed approach point, the engine lost power. 
The instructor took control and maneuvered the airplane over a set of power lines. He attempted to 
maneuver under a second set of power lines when the right wing struck one of the lines. The airplane 
touched down on a roadway, and its left wing struck a passing vehicle. The landing gear struck the 
concrete median, yawing the airplane clockwise, and the airplane's tail struck a second vehicle.
Postaccident engine examination revealed the No. 1 cylinder intake valve had failed. Fractured pieces of 
the intake valve had been drawn into the intake plenum. The No. 1 cylinder was extensively damaged, 
and all of the piston heads had impact marks or pieces of valve embedded in the heads. The No. 1 
cylinder, No. 1 piston, its intake and exhaust valve train components (springs, pushrods, and rocker 
arms), and 12 hydraulic lifters were sent to the engine manufacturer for metallurgical examination, 
which revealed that the No. 1 cylinder intake valve had failed in fatigue; however, the root cause of the 
failure could not be determined due to the extensive damage after the valve failure. Both the intake and 
exhaust rocker arms had nonconforming shoe heights. In addition, nine of the hydraulic lifters failed the 
leak-down test, including the No. 1 intake. Maintenance information revealed the engine had been 
overhauled 4 years earlier, during which all 12 hydraulic lifters were replaced. The intake and exhaust 
rocker arms had been reworked and reused, and about 0.01 inch of material had been removed from the 
shoe pads during the overhaul. While the nonconforming rocker arm shoe height and lifter may have 
contributed to a malfunction of the valve, the investigation could not determine with certainty the reason 
for the fatigue failure. The fatigue failure of the No. 1 cylinder intake valve resulted in the loss of engine 
power.
Probable Cause and Findings
