Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Festus, Missouri
Accident Number:
CEN18FA384
Date & Time:
September 20, 2018, 22:30 Local 
Registration:
N7152S
Aircraft:
Cessna 150
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel exhaustion
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The commercial pilot and his son were conducting a cross-country flight from New York to Missouri. 
Before the final fuel stop, they communicated to the pilot's fiancée via text message that the airplane was 
experiencing a "small electrical problem." The pilot refueled the airplane about 275 miles from the 
destination airport and continued on the final leg of the flight into dark night conditions. 
The passenger subsequently messaged the pilot's fiancée and asked her to stand at the end of the runway 
with a flashlight to help direct the airplane toward the runway for landing. He stated that they would 
attempt to use a handheld radio onboard to activate the runway lights but were unsure if the radio would 
have sufficient battery. The passenger also indicated that they had "picked up a head wind" during the 
flight.
The pilot's fiancée reported that the airplane attempted to land, but she was unsure if it touched down on 
the runway due to the night conditions and the fact that the airplane was "blacked out" and did not have 
any exterior lights on. The last text message from the passenger stated, "keep light on." The airplane 
impacted terrain about 1/4 mile from the departure end of the runway in a nose-down attitude consistent 
with an aerodynamic stall. The two intact fuel tanks contained no usable fuel, and the propeller blades 
lacked chordwise scratches or torsional deformation, consistent with a loss of engine power. No 
preimpact mechanical malfunctions or failures with the airframe and engine were noted during the 
examination, with the exception of the voltage regulator, which was found to be inoperable. 
Manufacturer guidance stated that, following an electrical system failure, the pilot should land the 
airplane as soon as practical; however, the pilot chose to both initiate and continue the flight into dark 
night conditions with a known electrical problem to an airport that required him to activate the runway 
lights. Though the extent of the pilot's preflight and inflight fuel planning could not be determined, it is 
possible that the airplane consumed more fuel than planned, as the passenger indicated that the airplane 
had encountered a headwind inflight, and it is likely that the absence of a fuel quantity indication 
contributed to the fuel exhaustion. 
