Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Pagosa Springs, Colorado
Accident Number:
CEN18LA381
Date & Time:
September 19, 2018, 10:00 Local 
Registration:
N8003W
Aircraft:
Piper PA28
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel starvation
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot rated flight instructor was introducing engine failure emergency procedures to 
the student pilot. Emergency procedures were reviewed inflight. The flight instructor then reduced the 
engine power to idle to simulate a loss of engine power. The student pilot conducted the emergency 
procedures on the left side of the cockpit that included switching the fuel tank selector position from 
right to left. The engine sputtered when the flight instructor subsequently added power to go around 
about 600 ft above the ground. The engine sputtered. Emergency procedures were reviewed again and 
the fuel pressure indication was zero. The flight instructor subsequently performed a forced landing 
where the airplane impacted fencing and ditches and came to rest in a field. Following the accident, the 
flight instructor noticed the fuel selector valve was about 1.5 to 2 inches between the left detent and off 
positions.
No preimpact mechanical malfunctions or failures with the airframe and engine that would have 
precluded normal operation were reported by the flight instructor and the engine was operational during 
a subsequent examination of the accident airplane at the accident site.
It is likely the student pilot, while conducting the emergency procedure, mismanaged the positioning of 
the fuel selector valve. While the student pilot was conducting the emergency procedure, the flight 
instructor did not adequately supervise the student pilot to ensure the fuel selector valve was properly set 
to the correct position.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
