Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Brenham, Texas
Accident Number:
WPR18LA271
Date & Time:
September 20, 2018, 15:22 Local 
Registration:
N756NN
Aircraft:
Cessna TU206
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel starvation
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Public aircraft
Analysis 
After completing a photographic mission, the pilot determined that there was adequate fuel remaining to 
reach his intended destination with a 45-minute reserve. During the landing approach, the engine began 
to lose power and the pilot switched from the left to right fuel tank, which the fuel gauges indicated had 
more fuel remaining; however, the engine did not respond, and shortly thereafter, the engine lost total 
power. The airplane impacted trees and a fence during the subsequent forced landing short of the 
runway. 
Enough fuel for about one hour of flight was drained from the right main fuel tank after the accident, but 
both the tip tanks and the left main tank were empty. Examination did not reveal any pre-impact 
anomalies with the airframe or engine that would have precluded normal operation.
The pilot reported that he switched fuel tanks every hour during the flight but had failed to select the 
fuller tank during the landing approach as required by the manufacturer's Pilot's Operating Handbook 
(POH). Allowing a tank to run dry was allowable per the POH, but it required the engagement of the 
auxiliary fuel pump after the other tank was selected. Likewise, the emergency procedures for an engine 
failure in flight required the use of the auxiliary fuel pump. 
The pilot had correctly planned for the airplane’s fuel consumption but failed to select the fullest tank 
during the critical landing phase, which resulted in the loss of engine power due to fuel starvation. The 
pilot stated that due to the airplane’s low altitude at the time of the loss of power, he did not have time to 
perform any items on the emergency checklist, and as such, did not turn on the fuel pump; however, the 
checklist was short and of sufficient significance that it should have been automatic to the pilot. 
Engagement of the fuel pump would likely have restarted the engine.
