Page 1 of 11
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Rainy Pass, Alaska
Accident Number:
CEN18FA386
Date & Time:
September 24, 2018, 10:32 Local 
Registration:
N1738R
Aircraft:
Cessna U206
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Controlled flight into terr/obj (CFIT)
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 135: Air taxi & commuter - Non-scheduled
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot was flying the airplane to a remote lodge to deliver cargo and return with 
passengers. The pilot and the chief pilot, who was also following the same route about 16 minutes later, 
had monitored the weather before and during the flight and recognized that the clouds were present but 
believed they could make the flight. The flight track data showed that the pilot flew at low altitudes as 
he flew into a winding valley leading toward a mountain pass. The chief pilot stated that, based on radio 
calls from the pilot, he was maneuvering around low clouds. The flight track showed that the accident 
airplane continued toward the mountain pass, then proceeded south past two mountain passes and into a 
box canyon. The airplane impacted steep mountainous terrain facing north, consistent with the pilot 
attempting a steep right turn to reverse course and exit the box canyon. Aviation weather cameras near 
the accident location showed low clouds and precipitation around the time of the accident. The chief 
pilot continued toward the destination but then elected to turn around as the low clouds hindered him 
from navigating through the valley. It is likely that the accident pilot encountered deteriorating weather 
as he flew through the valley toward mountainous terrain and attempted to exit the box canyon but was 
unable to maintain clearance from terrain as he performed the steep right turn. A postaccident 
examination of the engine, airframe, and recorded engine data did not reveal any anomalies that would 
have precluded normal operation. 
Based on a review of the autopsy report and previous medical conditions, there was no evidence to 
suggest the pilot was impaired; therefore, the medical conditions were likely not a factor in this accident. 
Diphenhydramine was detected in the pilot's toxicology, but not quantified; therefore, the investigation 
was unable to determine if the pilot was impaired by diphenhydramine. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
