Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Oscoda, Michigan
Accident Number:
CEN18FA387
Date & Time:
September 25, 2018, 06:13 Local 
Registration:
N241CK
Aircraft:
Beech 200
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Altitude deviation
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot of the multiengine airplane was cleared for the VOR approach. The weather at 
the airport was reported as 400 ft overcast with 4 miles visibility in drizzle. When the airplane failed to 
arrive at the airport as scheduled, a search was initiated, and the wreckage was located soon thereafter. 
Radar data indicated that the pilot was provided vectors to intercept the final approach course. The last 
radar return indicated that the airplane was at 2,200 ft and 8.1 miles from the runway threshold. It 
impacted terrain 3.5 miles from the runway threshold and left of the final approach course. According to 
the published approach procedure, the minimum descent altitude was 1,100 feet, which was 466 ft above 
airport elevation.
Examination of the wreckage revealed that the airplane had impacted the tops of trees and descended at 
a 45° angle to ground contact; the airplane was destroyed by a postcrash fire, thus limiting the 
examination; however, no anomalies were observed that would have precluded normal operation. The 
landing gear was extended, and approach flaps had been set. Impact and fire damage precluded an 
examination of the flight and navigation instruments. Autopsy and toxicology of the pilot were not 
performed; therefore, whether a physiological issue may have contributed to the accident could not be 
determined. The location of the wreckage indicates that the pilot descended below the minimum descent 
altitude (MDA) for the approach; however, the reason for the pilot's descent below MDA could not be 
determined based on the available information.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's&nbsp;descent below minimum descent altitude&nbsp;during the nonprecision 
instrument approach&nbsp;for reasons that could not be determined based on the available 
