Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Georgetown, South Carolina
Accident Number:
ERA18LA258
Date & Time:
September 22, 2018, 15:15 Local 
Registration:
N435RB
Aircraft:
Beech 35
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Flight control sys malf/fail
Injuries:
2 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
While approaching the airport for landing during an instructional flight, the airplane entered an 
uncommanded yaw and roll to the right and began to pitch up. The flight instructor was able to maintain 
some control of the airplane by applying left rudder, left aileron, and forward elevator pressure, and 
trimming the airplane nose-down. The instructor noticed that the airplane’s right yaw increased as the 
airplane's speed decreased, and it became "impossible" to maintain alignment with the runway 
centerline. Upon touching down on the runway, the airplane immediately veered to the right about 90° 
and collided with trees, resulting in substantial damage to the firewall, fuselage, and both wings. 
Examination of the flight control system revealed that the left seat’s left rudder pedal arm clevis was 
fractured in multiple sections. Metallurgical examination identified cracks and voids created during the 
casting (manufacturing) process. The presence of these voids, cracks, and oxide layers reduced the 
cross-sectional area that could withstand the force applied over the pedal arm clevises. Once a high 
enough load input was applied to the pedal arm, the remaining material fractured in overstress. The 
separation of the pedal arm from the pushrod subsequently resulted in a failure of the rudder control 
system. Review of the airframe logbooks revealed that the rudder pedal arm was original to the airplane 
and had accrued a total of 6,203.62 flight hours.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
A loss of directional control during landing due to overstress failure of the left seat’s left rudder pedal 
arm clevis, which occurred as a result of manufacturing defects.  
