Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Healy, Alaska
Accident Number:
ANC18FA071
Date & Time:
September 22, 2018, 16:00 Local 
Registration:
N7511H
Aircraft:
Piper PA-12-150
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Unknown or undetermined
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was performing a personal flight with one passenger to hunt sheep in remote mountainous 
terrain. After the pilot failed to report to his place of employment 4 days after their departure, an 
extensive SAR operation was launched the following day. The wreckage was located 2 days after the 
SAR operation began in a remote snow-covered mountainous valley. The airplane came to rest upright, 
with the fuselage banking to the right, both wings indicating forward/aft crushing, and the tail slightly 
elevated with little impact damage. The date and time of the accident could not be determined. Thus, the 
meteorological conditions before and at the time of the accident could not be determined. 
A postaccident examination of the airframe and engine revealed no pre-impact mechanical malfunctions 
or failures that would have precluded normal operation. The aft right wing spar exhibited signs of 
compression bending, with the right forward spar exhibiting aft bending. The aft left wing spar bolt 
indicated a failure in tension, and the left forward spar indicated forward bending. A postcrash fire 
incinerated a large portion of the wreckage. 
The pilot did not file a flight plan. If the pilot had filed a flight plan, SAR assets would have focused on 
a specific search area which would likely have reduced the time to find the airplane. Although the 
accident was likely not survivable due to the impact forces, a filed flight plan would have reduced the 
risk to aerial SAR assets operating in remote mountainous terrain.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
