Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
DeLeon Springs, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA18TA263
Date & Time:
September 23, 2018, 15:45 Local 
Registration:
N752VK
Aircraft:
Zenith CH 750
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
2 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot/owner of the experimental, amateur-built airplane reported that, about 15 minutes into 
the local flight, the engine started "skipping" before completely losing power. He then set up for a forced 
landing to an open area. During the descent, he maneuvered to clear power lines. The airplane touched 
down at a steep descent angle, nosed over, and came to rest inverted, which resulted in substantial 
damage to the airframe.
The airplane's engine used an electronic control unit instead of magnetos and required at least one of the 
airplane's two onboard batteries to provide electrical energy to the ignition system for the engine to 
operate. Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed that both of its batteries were discharged. 
After the batteries were charged, the engine was started and ran normally. The alternator also charged 
the batteries normally. The cockpit instrument panel switch that enabled the alternator to supply energy 
to the airplane's electrical system, and thus charge the airplane's batteries, was unlabeled. When the 
switch was placed in the unlabeled on position, the alternator field wire received power and the 
alternator charged normally. The pilot reported that he may have inadvertently left it in the off position 
during the flight. With the switch in this position, the engine would have continued to run until the 
selected battery lost its charge. The pilot also reported that he did not use a checklist when operating the 
airplane. It is likely that the pilot failed to activate the airplane's alternator, which resulted in a discharge 
of the selected battery during the 15-minute flight. The subsequent loss of electrical power eventually 
resulted in the total loss of engine power.
Additionally, the airplane was not equipped with an alternator warning light as recommended by the 
engine manufacturer. Had the airplane been equipped with such a light, the pilot might have realized that 
he had failed to turn the alternator on and that it was not providing energy to the electrical system to 
sustain the charge of the selected battery.
