Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Greenville, South Carolina
Accident Number:
ERA18FA264
Date & Time:
September 27, 2018, 13:46 Local 
Registration:
N114TD
Aircraft:
Dassault FALCON 50
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Sys/Comp malf/fail (non-power)
Injuries:
2 Fatal, 2 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 135: Air taxi & commuter - Non-scheduled
Analysis 
The flight crew was operating the business jet on an on-demand air taxi flight with passengers onboard. 
During landing at the destination airport, the cockpit voice recorder (CVR) recorded the sound of the 
airplane touching down followed by the pilot's and copilot's comments that the brakes were not 
operating. Air traffic controllers reported, and airport surveillance video confirmed, that the airplane 
touched down "normally" and the airplane's thrust reverser deployed but that the airplane continued 
down the runway without decelerating before overrunning the runway and impacting terrain. Post-
accident examination of the airplane's brake system revealed discrepancies of the antiskid system that 
included a broken solder joint on the left-side inboard transducer and a reversal of the wiring on the 
right-side outboard transducer. It is likely that these discrepancies resulted in the normal braking 
system's failure to function during the landing.
Before the accident flight, the airplane had been in long-term storage for several years and was in the 
process of undergoing maintenance to bring the airplane back to a serviceable condition, which in-part 
required the completion of several inspections, an overhaul of the landing gear, and the resolution of 
over 100 other unresolved discrepancies. The accident flight and four previous flights were all made 
with only a portion of this required maintenance having been completed and properly documented in the 
airplane's maintenance logs. A pilot, who had flown the airplane on four previous flights along with the 
accident pilot (who was acting as second-in-command during them), identified during those flights that 
the airplane's normal braking system was not operating when the airplane was traveling faster than 20 
knots. He remedied the situation by configuring the airplane to use the emergency, rather than normal, 
braking system. That pilot reported this discrepancy to the operator's director of maintenance, and it is 
likely that maintenance personnel from the company subsequently added an "INOP" placard near the 
switch on the date of the accident. The label on the placard referenced the antiskid system, and the 
airplane's flight manual described that with the normal brake (or antiskid) system inoperative, the brake 
selector switch must be positioned to use the emergency braking system. Following the accident, the 
switch was found positioned with the normal braking system activated, and it is likely that the accident 
flight crew attempted to utilize the malfunctioning normal braking system during the landing. 
Additionally, the flight crew failed to properly recognize the failure and configure the airplane to utilize 
