Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Silver City, Idaho
Accident Number:
WPR18FA276
Date & Time:
September 30, 2018, 08:37 Local 
Registration:
N732MV
Aircraft:
Cessna T210
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
3 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot and two passengers departed on a local area flight through mountainous terrain to a nearby 
airport. A review of primary targets that were consistent with the airplane’s flight track; initially, for a 3 
minute period, the airplane was flying between 3,200 and 3,400 ft mean sea level (msl) at an average 
speed of 131 knots calibrated airspeed (KCAS). Radar data were lost for about the next 4 minutes due to 
mountainous terrain. Once the radar returns were picked up again, for about the next 4 minutes, the 
flight track showed the airplane continuing a southerly track, climbing from 4,700 to 6,500 ft msl. The 
last three radar returns showed that, during the last 36 seconds of flight, the airplane’s altitude above the 
ground decreased as the terrain rose such that the airplane was about 150 ft above ground level at the 
last radar return; the airspeed decreased to less than 70 KCAS by the end of the data. The wreckage was 
located near the bottom of a valley about 1,950 ft west and 15.5 nm east of the wreckage. Postaccident 
examination of the airplane and engine revealed no evidence of any preimpact mechanical malfunctions 
or failures that would have precluded normal operation. 
Using the approximate conditions that existed at the time of the accident, including an estimated airplane 
gross weight of 3,900 lbs (about 100 lbs over the airplane’s maximum allowable gross weight) and flaps 
at 10°, the airplane’s stall speed was estimated to be about 68 KCAS. A ground scar at the accident site 
indicated that the left wing impacted terrain first, and the wreckage lay along a heading of 345°, 
indicating that the pilot was likely turning the airplane during the accident sequence. Given this evidence 
and that the airplane was losing speed as it climbed over rising terrain near the accident site and was 
approaching or at its stall speed by the end of the radar data, it is likely that the pilot did not maintain 
adequate airspeed while making a left turn in mountainous terrain. The gusting wind and low-level wind 
shear conditions could also contribute to the airplane exceeding its critical angle of attack, which 
resulted in an aerodynamic stall with the left wing low. 
Although the pilot had type 2 diabetes, the accident circumstances are not consistent with incapacitation; 
therefore, it is unlikely that the pilot's diabetes contributed to the accident. Toxicology testing indicated 
that the pilot had taken buprenorphine, which can cause somnolence and impaired decision-making, at 
