Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Kernville, California
Accident Number:
WPR18LA278
Date & Time:
September 30, 2018, 08:44 Local 
Registration:
N9471H
Aircraft:
Howard DGA 15P
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Fuel starvation
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
Before departure, the pilot selected the main fuel tank, performed an engine run-up and then taxied to 
the runway. During his subsequent takeoff attempt, the airplane lifted off the ground and transitioned 
into a climb. As the airplane reached about 50 ft above ground level, the pilot experienced a total loss of 
engine power. The airplane descended rapidly and impacted the runway, which resulted in a postcrash 
fire and destroyed most of the airplane except for the engine compartment. 
Information provided by the airplane type certificate holder indicated that takeoffs were conventionally 
conducted with the front fuel tank selected for takeoff rather than the main fuel tank. The accident 
airplane’s operating handbook indicated that takeoff should be conducted with the main tank selected, 
but documentation indicated that the manufacturer later published guidance requiring takeoffs with the 
front fuel tank selected due to an unspecified fuel system failure, believed to be the result of a fuel tank 
un-porting. There was no available information to indicate that this guidance was distributed to the 
operators of earlier serial number airplanes. The type certificate holder also published anecdotes from 
pilots who had experienced a loss of engine power during takeoff with the main fuel tank selected when 
the tank was less than 1/2 full. The accident pilot reported that the main fuel tank may have been less 
than 3/8 full at the time of the accident. 
Examination of the airplane and an engine test run did not reveal any preimpact mechanical anomalies 
that could have resulted in a loss of power. Given the available information, it is likely that the engine 
experienced fuel starvation, which resulted in a total loss of engine power.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
