Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Addison, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN18LA392
Date & Time:
September 30, 2018, 11:21 Local 
Registration:
N818GM
Aircraft:
Cirrus SR22
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Sys/Comp malf/fail (non-power)
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The private pilot and flight instructor were conducting a cross-country instructional flight. During 
departure and while climbing through 2,800 ft mean sea level, the pilot and instructor noticed multiple 
avionics malfunctions and initiated a turn back toward the airport. While the airplane was turning, the 
engine lost all power, and the pilots noted indications of a fire. Because they were unable to find a 
suitable area for a forced landing, the pilot activated the airplane's parachute system. The airplane 
descended under the parachute into a parking lot, and the main wing spar sustained substantial damage. 
Examination of the engine revealed that the engine exhaust muffler attachment hardware was not 
secured correctly, which allowed the exhaust collector to freely rotate. A hole near the lower right 
engine cowling was consistent with escaping hot exhaust gas. Several components in the right forward 
side of the firewall were thermally damaged, and both magneto p-leads were shorted against the engine's 
metal mount frame. The thermal damage interrupted both magnetos' function, which resulted in the loss 
of engine power.
During a pre-buy inspection of the airplane, the No. 1 cylinder base O-ring was replaced. The work 
order, dated 3 days before the accident, required removal of the muffler. During the muffler 
reinstallation, maintenance personnel likely did not correctly install the attachment hardware, which 
resulted in the muffler separating in flight, thermal damage that interrupted the magnetos' function, and 
the subsequent loss of engine power.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
