Page 1 of 14
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
La Verne, California
Accident Number:
WPR19FA001
Date & Time:
October 1, 2018, 11:50 Local 
Registration:
N7997M
Aircraft:
Beech V35
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Collision during takeoff/land
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was approaching his home airport in day visual meteorological conditions at the conclusion of 
a cross-country flight. The tower controller cleared the pilot for a straight-in approach to runway 8R and 
advised him that another airplane about 1 mile ahead was inbound for landing on the parallel runway, 
8L. A short time later, the controller asked the accident pilot if he had the other airplane in sight. The 
pilot responded that he was looking for the traffic and was inbound for runway 8L. The controller 
immediately corrected the pilot and verified he was cleared to land on runway 8R, which the pilot 
confirmed. Shortly thereafter, the pilot told the controller that he had the other airplane in sight and that 
it was aligned with runway 8R. The controller queried the pilot of the other airplane and verified that 
that airplane was cleared for landing on runway 8L, then confirmed with the accident pilot that the 
accident airplane was cleared for 8R. About 20 seconds later, the controller asked the accident pilot if he 
was landing 8R and subsequently instructed him to go-around and offset his flight path to the 
right. There was no further communication from the accident airplane.
Witnesses, who were at the site of an aircraft accident that occurred the previous day near the end of the 
runways, heard the accident airplane impact trees. They turned to see the airplane in a left banking, 
nose-low attitude that progressively steepened before the airplane impacted the ground, a post-impact 
fire ensued. Radar data showed the accident airplane proceeding toward the airport left of the runway 8R 
centerline until it was about 0.76 nautical mile (nm) west of the runway 8R, when it turned right, then 
left. 
The final 3 radar targets showed a right turn toward runway 8R. Radar data showed that the other 
airplane was flying right of the runway 8L centerline until about 0.64 nm of runway 8L, when it turned 
left toward runway 8L.  
Examination revealed no anomalies with the airframe or engine that would have precluded normal 
operation.  
Given the apparent confusion regarding the inbound airplanes' runway assignments and the multiple 
