Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Fairbanks, Alaska
Accident Number:
ANC18LA073
Date & Time:
September 27, 2018, 15:00 Local 
Registration:
N70391
Aircraft:
Cessna A185
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel exhaustion
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot reported that, before departure for the 24-minute roundtrip flight, the airplane was refueled; 25 
gallons of useable fuel was on board the airplane. The fuel quantity was confirmed with a custom-made 
fuel dipstick before departure. After landing at a lake, the pilot departed for the return flight. While in 
level cruise flight, at an altitude of about 1,000 ft above ground level (agl), the engine lost total power. 
In an effort to restore power, the pilot switched fuel tanks and activated the fuel boost pump to no avail. 
He performed an emergency descent to a landing on a small lake, during which the airplane impacted 
trees, the floats separated from the fuselage, and the airplane came to rest partially submerged with 
substantial damage to the wings and fuselage. 
Postaccident examination revealed that both left and right fuel tanks were intact; however, the fuel 
bladders were loose in the tank cavity with wrinkles present. About 2 gallons of fuel were recovered 
from the fuel tanks. The fuel line between the fuel pump and the fuel control unit was removed, and 
about 2 tablespoons of fluid that was light blue in color and consistent with 100LL AvGas was 
recovered. The fuel line between the fuel control unit and fuel manifold was removed, and no fluid was 
present. Examination of the engine revealed no evidence of malfunctions or anomalies.
The airplane was equipped with optional long-range fuel tanks. According to the owner's manual, the 
total unusable fuel for an aircraft equipped with long-range fuel tanks is 6 gallons.
The investigation was unable to determine if the loose fuel bladders were a result of the accident or 
recovery and what impact they would have had on fuel quantity and unusable fuel. However, given the 
lack of malfunctions or anomalies noted during the engine examination and the lack of fluid present in 
the fuel lines, it is likely that the engine lost power due to fuel exhaustion. 
