Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Grass Valley, California
Accident Number:
WPR19LA003
Date & Time:
October 8, 2018, 11:00 Local 
Registration:
N2250S
Aircraft:
Piper PA28
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel related
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The accident flight was the student pilot’s first solo cross-country flight; the intended route of 
flight included stops at five airports along the route. Prior to departure, the pilot confirmed the 
left fuel tank was full, and the right fuel tank contained about 17 gallons. The airplane was not 
refueled during the cross-country flight. The pilot stated she flew with the left fuel tank selected 
until the final leg of the trip. She report that, after departure from the last airport, she switched 
to the right fuel tank. When the airplane was about 5 miles from Grass Valley Airport (GOO), at 
an altitude of about 5,000 ft above ground level (agl), the engine started to sputter. The pilot 
attempted, unsuccessfully, to restart the engine and she contacted the air traffic control tower 
at GOO to report an engine failure. She was cleared to land; however, the airplane was at an 
altitude of 3,200 feet agl and continuing to lose altitude. When she realized the airplane would 
not make it to the airport, she performed a forced landing to an open field. During the landing, 
the nose landing gear collapsed, and the right wing was damaged. 
After the accident, 17 gallons of fuel were removed from the right-wing fuel tank and the left-
wing fuel tank was empty. Because the amount of fuel in the right fuel tank after the accident 
was the same as before takeoff and the pilot stated she flew most of the flight with the left fuel 
tank selected, it is likely that, despite her report of switching to the right fuel tank, the left tank 
remained selected, and its fuel supply was exhausted. Other than the absence of fuel, no 
anomalies were noted with the engine that would have precluded normal operation.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
