Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Wagoner, Oklahoma
Accident Number:
ERA19LA006
Date & Time:
October 4, 2018, 18:30 Local 
Registration:
N8495Z
Aircraft:
Cessna 205
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Powerplant sys/comp malf/fail
Injuries:
1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Flight test
Analysis 
During a post maintenance flight after the airplane's annual inspection, the pilot made about three 
circuits around the airport area before departing to continue flight maneuvers and performance checks. 
He started a left turn and then noticed a “very minor engine mis[fire]." As the pilot continued the turn, 
the "engine mis[fire]" began to increase and the engine began to shake. The airplane was unable to 
maintain altitude and was descending about 150-300 ft per minute. Although the pilot made multiple 
attempts to regain engine power, the engine lost total power. The airplane impacted trees and brush; 
during the landing sequence, the left and right wings buckled.
Following the accident, an engine run was performed; after running for 13 minutes, the engine lost 
power. Troubleshooting of the magnetos found that the right magneto was firing erratically. The right 
magneto was replaced with a known-good magneto and the engine was subsequently successfully test 
run at full power. More detailed testing of both magnetos revealed that they failed the manufacturer’s 
acceptance test procedures due to excessive point gaps and secondary coil resistance. A review of the 
engine logbooks revealed the magneto points and condensers were replaced about 18 years and about 
230 flight hours before the accident flight. Given the available information, it is likely that maintenance 
personnel did not perform proper maintenance of the magnetos.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
Maintenance personnel’s improper maintenance of the magnetos, which resulted in a loss of engine 
power.
