Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
San Antonio, Texas
Accident Number:
GAA19CA011
Date & Time:
October 5, 2018, 11:30 Local 
Registration:
N6674Y
Aircraft:
Beech 55
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Abrupt maneuver
Injuries:
1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot reported that, the day before the accident flight, he had flown the airplane and wanted to 
become more comfortable with new instruments that had been installed. So, after the flight, while in a 
hangar, he and a friend turned the airplane's electrical power on to familiarize the pilot with the autopilot 
system and specifically with how it would follow heading bug settings. During the familiarization, they 
"ran the [pitch] trim all the way up." 
The pilot added that, before takeoff for the accident flight, he did not check the pitch trim setting 
because he believed it would be the same as his previous flight, instead of the pitch trim setting after his 
autopilot ground familiarization. He added that, during takeoff, the nose pitched up severely. He lowered 
the nose, and the airplane entered a negative G condition. He realized that he "did not latch the seat belt 
very good" and saw that his seatbelt had disconnected and that he was no longer in his seat and could 
not regain airplane control. The airplane struck the runway, porpoised, and the nose landing gear 
collapsed. The airplane skidded and struck a taxiway light.
Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed that the vertical trim tab was in the full-down position, 
indicating that full nose-up trim was applied.
The airplane sustained substantial damage to both engines and the fuselage.
The pilot reported that there were no preaccident mechanical failures or malfunctions with the airplane 
that would have precluded normal operation.
The Pilot's Operating Handbook checklist titled, "Before Takeoff," stated:
Seat Belts and Shoulder Harnesses – CHECK… 15. Trim – AS REQUIRED FOR TAKE-OFF
