Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Floresville, Texas
Accident Number:
ERA18LA270
Date & Time:
September 11, 2018, 16:37 Local 
Registration:
N969AW
Aircraft:
Maule M7
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Landing gear collapse
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The flight instructor and the private pilot-rated student, who was in the left seat and was also the 
airplane owner, were practicing approaches. Upon landing, the pilots heard a loud popping noise, and 
the instructor then initiated a go-around. Subsequently, the pilot felt vibration under the floorboard. The 
pilots thought that a tire might have blown. The instructor flew the approach and conducted a three-point 
landing, and just before the airplane came to a stop, the left main landing gear (MLG) collapsed, which 
resulted in substantial damage to the left wing.
An examination of the left MLG revealed that its inboard attachment bolt and nut were missing. After 
the accident, the bolt was found along the path of the landing rollout. Examination of the attachment bolt 
revealed that the bolt threads were undamaged. The attachment nut was not found. The right MLG's 
inboard attachment bolt and nut were found still attached; however, they were loose, with only two to 
three threads visible past the nut.
 
The inboard attachment bolts were upgraded high-strength bolts. The airframe manufacturer had issued 
a service letter (SL) that stated that, when using the high-strength bolts, the outboard attachment bolts 
required the same amount of torque as indicated in the airplane maintenance manual but that the inboard 
attachment bolts required a higher torque amount than the standard bolts. However, a review of the 
maintenance manual revealed that it did not include the new, higher torque requirements specified in the 
SL. Therefore, mechanics who only follow the maintenance manual may not be aware that higher torque 
values are required.
 
A review of the airplane maintenance records revealed that its last annual inspection was completed 
about 6 months before the accident. The mechanic who performed the inspection reported that he did not 
