Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Culpeper, Virginia
Accident Number:
ERA19FA010
Date & Time:
October 11, 2018, 20:00 Local 
Registration:
N804RL
Aircraft:
Vans RV8
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of visual reference
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Air race/show
Analysis 
The accident pilot was performing as part of a two-airplane demonstration team that was conducting a 
night aerobatic display about 55 minutes after the end of civil twilight. Both airplanes were equipped 
with streamer- and flare-type fireworks that were discharged throughout the 5-minute routine. The pilot 
of the lead airplane stated that the night of the accident was "a little bit on the darker side" and that they 
had chosen to perform their display around 700 ft above ground level (agl) rather than their typical 500 
ft agl altitude. They were in the middle of the routine when the accident occurred; the accident airplane 
was in trail behind the lead airplane as they each performed two aileron rolls. Video footage showed 
that, after completing the second aileron roll, the lead airplane began to climb. The accident airplane 
completed its second aileron roll to an inverted attitude, but rather than continuing the roll to an upright 
position, entered an inverted descent that continued until ground contact.
At the time of the accident, the moon was more than 14° below the horizon. The dark night conditions, 
combined with a lack of cultural lighting on the ground in the vicinity of the airport, would have 
increased the difficulty associated with the task of maintaining awareness of the airplane's attitude in 
relation to the horizon and its height above the ground. In addition, the multiple point-source glare from 
the pyrotechnics off the lead airplane during the final moments of the flight may have impeded the 
pilot's vision and affected his ability to maintain his orientation during maneuver, particularly without a 
discernable contrast between earth and sky under the dark night conditions. With this loss of attitude 
orientation, it is likely that the pilot did not recognize that he had not come out of the roll and the 
airplane continued to ground impact.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's loss of attitude orientation while maneuvering at low altitude in dark night visual 
meteorological conditions, which resulted in impact with terrain.
