Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Cartersville, Georgia
Accident Number:
CEN19FA005
Date & Time:
October 13, 2018, 14:30 Local 
Registration:
N180QT
Aircraft:
Piper PA28
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Fuel exhaustion
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot departed on a cross-county flight in day visual meteorological conditions. According to the 
airplane's co-owner, who spoke with the pilot before he departed on the accident flight, the airplane had 
about 34 gallons of fuel onboard at the time of departure. Based on his experience, this was sufficient for 
about 2 hours 20 minutes of flight. He suggested that the pilot top off the airplane's fuel tanks before 
departure. When he watched the pilot taxi the airplane past the fuel facility and take off, he subsequently 
sent the pilot a text message stating, "Do hope you had a fuel stop planned." The pilot replied that he 
would stop if he needed to. GPS data indicated that the pilot did not land at any point between the 
departure airport and accident site, though he passed near one airport, and directly over another airport, 
both of which had fuel services available. A witness reported that the airplane's engine stopped then 
restarted. Another witness reported that the airplane's engine was surging. The airplane subsequently 
impacted power lines. The duration of the accident flight was 3 hours and 10 minutes.
Postaccident examination revealed that both fuel tanks were intact; the left wing tank was empty, and 
the right wing tank contained residual fuel. Examination of the fuel system and the engine revealed no 
anomalies. Given the absence of fuel in the airplane's fuel tanks at the accident site, the duration of the 
flight, and the known quantity of fuel onboard at the time of departure, the accident is consistent with a 
total loss of engine power due to fuel exhaustion. Although the pilot passed over two other airports with 
fuel available, he chose to continue the flight beyond the airplane's endurance given the fuel at 
departure.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's inadequate preflight and inflight fuel planning and his decision to continue flight without 
stopping for fuel, which resulted in a total loss of engine power due to fuel exhaustion.
