Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Placedo, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN19FA003
Date & Time:
October 12, 2018, 18:31 Local 
Registration:
N6135P
Aircraft:
Air Tractor AT502
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Low altitude operation/event
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 137: Agricultural
Analysis 
The pilot was flying at a low altitude during an agricultural application flight when the airplane 
impacted a radio antenna tower. The airplane struck the main antenna near the top of the structure, 
separating the upper section of the tower. A representative of the operator reported that the accident 
flight was the first time the pilot had sprayed that particular field, which was located about 1/2-mile 
from the antenna. The pilot had reviewed satellite imagery before the flight in order to identify potential 
hazards and was aware of power lines running along the south edge of the field and the proximity of the 
antenna.
A witness reported that the airplane appeared to be level and flying along a road in the direction of the 
antenna. A second witness reported hearing the airplane fly over followed by the sound of the impact 
with the antenna tower. He subsequently observed the airplane descending toward the ground.
The airplane came to rest near the antenna tower along the two-lane road. The road was oriented toward 
the west-southwest which was nearly in line with the setting sun. The upper section of the antenna tower 
was intertwined with the right wing of the airplane at the accident site. The airplane was destroyed by 
impact forces and a postimpact fire. A postaccident examination did not reveal any anomalies consistent 
with a preimpact failure or malfunction. The antenna tower was marked in accordance with Federal 
Aviation Administration recommendations.
Weather conditions were good at the time of the accident with 10 miles visibility and no obscuration or 
precipitation. The sun was positioned about 6°above the horizon to the west-southwest. The accident 
occurred about 30 minutes before sunset.
It is likely that the pilot lost situational awareness relative to the antenna tower due to the close 
proximity of the application field, the power lines, and the antenna tower. In addition, the position of the 
sun at the time of the accident likely hindered the pilot's ability to see and avoid the antenna tower.
