Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
40 nm vicinity south of Lake 
Jackson, Texas
Accident Number:
DCA18CA303
Date & Time:
September 20, 2018, 18:30 UTC 
Registration:
N233SW
Aircraft:
Embraer EMB120
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Turbulence encounter
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 135: Air taxi & commuter - Non-scheduled
Analysis 
On September 20, 2018, about 1830 UTC, a Berry Aviation Inc. Embraer EMB-120ER, N233SW, found 
substantial damage to the cargo area after arriving at Queretaro International Airport (MMQT), 
Queretaro, Mexico. The two flight crew members were not injured.  The flight was being operated as a 
14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 135 international cargo flight from Shreveport Regional Airport 
(KSHV), Shreveport, Louisiana, to MMQT.  
While in cruise flight in Houston, Texas, airspace, the flight crew noticed a storm cell on the weather 
radar, however, they continued on their routing since they would stay south of the storm.  While passing 
the storm, they encountered severe turbulence for a short period of time. The flight crew notified ATC 
of the location of the severe turbulence and continued the flight.  
Upon arrival at MMQT, the flight crew entered the cargo area where they noticed several panels had 
fallen and were hanging from their attachment points. Further maintenance inspection revealed buckling 
to four fuselage frames and four floor support structures that covered an area several feet long.  The 
damage was classified as substantial as it would adversely affect the structural strength of the fuselage. 
The flight crew reported they picked up four pallets of cargo at John C. Munro Hamilton International 
Airport (CYHM), Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.  Two of the pallets were loaded in zone 2 and two were 
loaded into zone 3.  The pallets were secured with vertical cargo nets.  The flight crew departed CYHM 
at 1322 UTC and arrived at KSHV at 1657 to clear US customs and to take on fuel.  They departed 
KSHV at 1727 UTC for MMQT. 
After the accident, the operator reminded flight crews to fly 5 or more miles away from thunderstorm 
cells identified on the weather radar and to secure cargo better to decrease the likelihood that it will shift 
during turbulence encounters.  
