Page 1 of 13
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Westhampton Beach, New York
Accident Number:
ERA19LA012
Date & Time:
October 13, 2018, 10:58 Local 
Registration:
N593MS
Aircraft:
Piper PA34
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
3 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The flight instructor picked up the private pilot and passenger for a cross-country flight. The instructor 
requested visual flight rules (VFR) flight following services from air traffic control (ATC) and indicated 
a planned climb to 8,500 ft mean sea level (msl); however, the airplane continued to climb past that 
altitude. During the climb, the instructor indicated to the ATC controller, in separate transmissions, that 
he was climbing to reach "VFR on-top," that he was experiencing problems with an "unreliable" attitude 
indicator, and that the airplane was "in and out of IMC [instrument meteorological conditions]." Based 
on weather sounding and satellite imagery, it is likely that the airplane was operating in IMC above 
4,100 ft.
About 20 minutes after the airplane departed, the controller declared an emergency on behalf of the pilot 
and provided multiple radar vectors for the airplane to return to visual meteorological conditions 
(VMC); however, the airplane's radar track showed that the airplane continued climbing to 19,400 ft msl 
before it entered a series of figure-eight turns followed by a steep, turning descent. A witness stated that 
the airplane sounded "as if it were a stunt plane doing spins (pitch changing)" and then heard a "pop" 
and saw large pieces of the airplane descending from the overcast sky. Examination of the recovered 
portions of the airplane revealed no evidence of preimpact mechanical anomalies and a wreckage 
distribution consistent with an in-flight breakup.
Both the instructor and the private pilot had low levels of ethanol in cavity blood but none in vitreous 
(instructor) or urine (private pilot). The absence of ethanol in the second specimen indicates it is likely 
the ethanol was not from ingestion and therefore it did not contribute to the accident circumstances. The 
private pilot also had evidence of use of morphine, an impairing opioid. However, the decision-making 
on this flight, including the route and response to weather conditions, was most likely performed by the 
instructor. Therefore, it is unlikely that effects from low levels of morphine in the private pilot 
contributed to the accident circumstances.
The instructor demonstrated several lapses in judgment associated with conducting the flight. 
