Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Byhalia, Mississippi
Accident Number:
ERA19LA016
Date & Time:
October 12, 2018, 13:45 Local 
Registration:
N503CM
Aircraft:
SA300 Starduster
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Collision during takeoff/land
Injuries:
1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot reported that he was practicing landings. He departed and flew over a nearby town and 
noted that the air was "quite turbulent." Upon returning to the airport, the pilot entered the downwind leg 
of the traffic pattern and began a constant-radius, descending turn to the final leg of the traffic pattern. 
He noticed that the airplane was too low and applied engine power to maintain level flight. The airplane 
leveled off, and the pilot continued the approach to the runway. The pilot added that, as the airplane 
approached a tree line, which was about 100 ft before the approach end of the runway, the airplane 
"suddenly sank" and impacted trees before he could arrest the descent. The airplane came to rest 
inverted in a wooded area. The wings, fuselage, and empennage sustained substantial damage. 
The pilot reported that there were no preaccident mechanical failures or malfunctions with the airplane 
that would have precluded normal operation. Given the evidence, it is likely that the pilot did not 
maintain a proper approach path, which resulted in the impact with trees.
Examination of upper air sounding data revealed that no turbulence nor low-level wind shear existed in 
the area at the time of the accident. A review of meteorological data revealed that the wind conditions 
had the potential to develop into a 1-knot tailwind. However, the pilot should have been able to 
anticipate and adequately respond to the slight tailwind. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to maintain a proper approach path, which resulted a collision with trees short of the 
runway.
