Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Canoncito, New Mexico
Accident Number:
CEN19FA008
Date & Time:
October 16, 2018, 16:22 Local 
Registration:
N9326G
Aircraft:
Cessna 182
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was conducting a cross-country flight when the airplane had a loss of engine 
power while descending through an area of precipitation and icing conditions. He was 
unable to restore normal engine operation using carburetor heat, which resulted in a forced 
landing. The airplane struck the terrain in a right wing down attitude and cartwheeled upon 
impact. Shortly after the accident, an individual observed several pieces of structural ice on 
the ground below the airplane’s left wing leading edge.
After the accident, the engine demonstrated the ability to produce rated horsepower during 
an engine test. However, the carburetor heat control cable was found fractured and 
exhibited evidence of prolonged polishing wear against the cable sheathing. It is likely that 
the carburetor heat control cable had failed in overstress due to its reduced cross section 
from the polishing wear. Additionally, based on contaminants observed on the cable and 
fracture surfaces, the carburetor heat control cable had been fractured for an extended 
period before the flight. 
The airplane was not approved for flight in known icing conditions; however, if inadvertently 
flown in icing conditions, the carburetor heat should be engaged to avoid a loss of engine 
power due to induction air filter icing and/or carburetor icing. It is likely the loss of engine 
power during the flight was due to an accumulation of ice on the induction air filter and/or 
to the carburetor, and the pilot was unable to restore engine power because the fractured 
control cable had rendered the carburetor heat inoperative. According to the airplane’s 
operating handbook, pilots are to verify the proper operation of the carburetor heat during 
an engine runup before each flight.
