Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Denver, Colorado
Accident Number:
DCA19CA010
Date & Time:
October 12, 2018, 09:16 Local 
Registration:
N926FR
Aircraft:
Airbus A319
Aircraft Damage:
None
Defining Event:
Turbulence encounter
Injuries:
1 Serious, 1 Minor, 22 
None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 121: Air carrier - Scheduled
Analysis 
On October 12, 2018, about 0916 MDT, Frontier Airlines flight 190, an Airbus A319, N926FR, 
encountered turbulence while climbing through 24,000 feet after departure from Denver International 
Airport (DEN), Denver, Colorado.  Of the 24 passengers and crew onboard, one flight attendant 
received serious injuries.  The airplane was not damaged. The regularly scheduled passenger flight was 
operating under 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121 from DEN to Austin Bergstrom International 
Airport (AUS), Austin, Texas.   
According to the flight crew, the flight encountered only intermittent light turbulence during the initial 
climb.  However, as the airplane was climbing through flight level 240, they encountered continuous 
moderate turbulence.  The airplane began to accelerate rapidly so the captain disconnected the autopilot 
and increased the climb. There was no convective activity in the area and no reports of any turbulence 
from other airplanes.
At the time of the turbulence encounter, two flight attendance in the aft gally were preparing for cabin 
service.  Initially, the turbulence was light, however, when flight attendants felt the intensity increasing, 
they moved to get into their jump seats.  Before they could get in their seats, they were both thrown into 
the air and then onto the floor. One flight attendant injured her ankle and the other injured her knee.  
The captain called back to the cabin and was told that one of the flight attendants was seriously injured.  
He declared a medical emergency and requested paramedics meet the flight on arrival. After landing, 
one flight attendant was transported to a local hospital where she was diagnosed with a broken ankle.  
Probable Cause and Findings
