Page 1 of 11
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Hurricane, Utah
Accident Number:
WPR19LA010
Date & Time:
October 21, 2018, 12:00 Local 
Registration:
N413LL
Aircraft:
Piper PA46
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Powerplant sys/comp malf/fail
Injuries:
2 Serious, 3 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
Shortly after takeoff, the pilot smelled smoke. As he began to turn the airplane back to the airport, the 
engine lost total power. He conducted a forced landing in a field just short of the airport, during which 
the airplane struck a metal fence and pipe. All occupants egressed, and the pilot then noticed that a fire 
had erupted under the airplane's engine cowling. 
Postaccident examination revealed that the airplane sustained fire damage to the roof and forward end of 
the baggage compartment along with the engine accessory area between the firewall and aft air baffles. 
Further examination revealed that one of the engine exhaust crossover pipe assemblies was misaligned 
at the slip joint.
An engine manufacturer service bulletin (SB) called for inspections of the exhaust system slip and 
flange joints to identify misaligned exhaust components. The last maintenance event occurred about 7 
1/2 flight hours before the accident, during which the SB was performed and resulted in the replacement 
of crossover pipes. The mechanic who had performed the most recent maintenance did not follow the 
correct procedures for reinstallation of the crossover pipe, and the inspector who reviewed his work did 
not examine the installation as it progressed but instead inspected the pipes after they were installed and 
essentially hidden from view by their protective heat shield. As a result of the misaligned engine exhaust 
crossover pipe, hot exhaust gases escaped into the engine compartment and started a fire, which 
compromised critical engine fuel and oil lines, and resulted in the loss of engine power.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
