Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Brownstown, Indiana
Accident Number:
ERA19LA022
Date & Time:
October 20, 2018, 00:30 Local 
Registration:
N5581Z
Aircraft:
Piper PA22
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The student pilot was conducting a night, solo, cross-country flight, and while en route with the landing 
and taxi lights on, the cockpit panel lights on bright, and his cell phone and tablet charging from the 
electrical system, the airplane lost all electrical power, followed by the loss of all engine power. 
Subsequently, the student cycled both the electrical system master switch and the engine magneto switch 
twice, but electrical and engine power were not restored. The student navigated to a dark area below the 
airplane's flightpath hoping it was an open field, but the airplane subsequently impacted a heavily 
wooded area and then came to rest upright. The student was not injured, but the airplane was destroyed.
The airplane's electrical system was equipped with a master switch that when turned on, routed all 
power through either a main or spare fuse. Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed that the 
when the master switch was positioned to the spare fuse position the electrical system would not turn on 
because spare fuse had blown. The main fuse was intact, and when the electrical system was activated 
by toggling the master switch to the main fuse position, the electrical components powered on normally.
Based on the student's account of the flight and the blown spare fuse, it is possible that, during the flight, 
the electrical load drew an excessive current through the selected spare fuse, which resulted in it 
blowing and interrupting electrical power. The student's reported inability to restore electrical power by 
selecting the main fuse with the master switch could not be duplicated during postaccident testing. 
Further, postaccident examination of the engine did not reveal any evidence of preimpact mechanical 
malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation. The reason for the loss of engine 
power could not be determined. The investigation determined that the student had not received a flight 
endorsement for the solo flight; thus, he should not have been conducting the flight; however, having an 
endorsement would not have better prepared the student to deal with the reported engine issue.
