Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
State College, Pennsylvania
Accident Number:
ERA19LA024
Date & Time:
October 24, 2018, 00:36 Local 
Registration:
N8319D
Aircraft:
Beech 35
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
2 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot reported that he departed on a long, cross-country flight at night with full fuel 
tanks. The pilot stated that the fuel selector was set to the left main fuel tank on departure and that he 
moved the selector to the auxiliary tank about 1 hour later. About 1 to 2 hours after that, the pilot moved 
the fuel selector switch to the right main fuel tank, where it remained for the remainder of the flight 
(about 30 minutes). The flight was uneventful until it was on final approach to land and between about 
400 and 500 ft above ground level, at which point, the engine suddenly stopped producing power. The 
pilot recalled the passenger saying there was no fuel pressure, and he immediately pushed the throttle 
and mixture full forward and retracted the flaps. He also turned on the auxiliary fuel pump and pressed 
the starter button to restart the engine to no avail. The pilot did not switch the fuel selector to another 
tank. Due to the low altitude, the pilot slowed the airplane and conducted an emergency landing in trees, 
during which both wings, the fuselage, and the tail section sustained substantial damage. 
Postaccident examination of the engine and fuel system revealed no evidence of any preaccident 
mechanical malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation. The fuel selector was 
found set to the right main fuel tank, which was found empty of fuel. However, measurable fuel was 
found in the remaining three tanks. Therefore, the loss of engine power was likely due to the pilot's 
mismanagement of the available fuel, which resulted in the loss of all engine power due to fuel 
starvation.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's mismanagement of the available fuel, which resulted in a total loss of engine power due to 
fuel starvation.
