Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Monroe, Washington
Accident Number:
GAA19CA034
Date & Time:
October 12, 2018, 09:30 Local 
Registration:
N488VG
Aircraft:
Just JUST AIRCRAFT (HIGHL
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel starvation
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot of the tailwheel-equipped, experimental, amateur-built airplane, who was also an airframe and 
powerplant mechanic, reported that, during approach to a sandbar, he side-slipped the airplane and that 
the engine then lost power because he was "too aggressive with the throttle and pulled it enough to bend 
the [carburetor] idle stop screw bracket." The engine was normally quiet, the airplane was sound 
proofed, and the pilot also used a noise-cancelling headset, which prevented him from being aware of 
the power loss until he attempted to add power to no avail. He did not have enough time to restart the 
engine, so the airplane settled onto the water about 15 to 20 ft short of the sandbar. Subsequently, the 
airplane hydroplaned and then came to rest on the sandbar inverted. The pilot reported that the reason he 
was aggressive with the throttle was because of a lean mixture that tended to overheat the engine during 
takeoff or cruise on hot days. 
The airplane sustained substantial damage to the left wing lift strut, left wing, and rudder.
The pilot reported that there were no preaccident mechanical failures or malfunctions with the airplane 
that would have precluded normal operation.
The Federal Aviation Administration inspector reported that the pilot had modified the number and 
position of the last hole in the fuel spray bar. By doing so, the pilot was able to get the engine to "barely 
run" to perform short-field landings. During the accident landing, it "must have cut off the flow of fuel 
enough to make the engine quit."
That pilot reported that he had previously attempted to mechanically enrich the mixture by drilling holes 
in the fuel spray bar but had drilled a hole "at the location where the engine wanted to idle," meaning 
that, if the hole was open, the engine would idle high, and if the hole was closed, the engine would 
"die." He added that it was not a problem unless he was trying to land short. 
 
