Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Atlantic Ocean, Atlantic Ocean
Accident Number:
ERA19LA026
Date & Time:
October 25, 2018, 11:19 Local 
Registration:
N555PM
Aircraft:
Piper PA31T
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Inflight upset
Injuries:
5 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The two pilots and three passengers were conducting a cross-country flight over the ocean from South 
Carolina to the Bahamas. About 30 minutes into the flight, while climbing through 24,300 ft to 25,000 ft 
about 95 miles beyond the coast, the pilot made a garbled radio transmission indicating an emergency 
and intent to return. At the time of the transmission the airplane had drifted slightly right of course. The 
airplane then began a descent and returned on course. After the controller requested several times for the 
pilot to repeat the radio transmission, the pilot replied, "we're descending." About 15 seconds later, at an 
altitude of about 23,500 ft, the airplane turned sharply toward the left, and the descent rate increased to 
greater than 4,000 ft per minute, consistent with a loss of control. Attempts by the air traffic controller to 
clarify the nature of the emergency and the pilot's intentions were unsuccessful. About 1 minute after the 
sharp left turn and increased descent, the pilot again declared an emergency. No further communications 
were received. Search efforts coordinated by the U.S. Coast Guard observed an oil slick and some debris 
on the water in the vicinity of where the airplane was last observed via radar, however the debris was not 
identified or recovered. According to recorded weather information, a shallow layer favorable for light 
rime icing was present at 23,000 ft. However, because the airplane was not recovered, the investigation 
could not determine whether airframe icing or any other more-specific issues contributed to the loss of 
control. 
One air traffic control communication audio recording intermittently captured the sound of an 
emergency locator transmitter (ELT) "homing" signal for about 45 minutes, beginning near the time of 
takeoff, and ending about 5 minutes after radar contact was lost. Due to the intermittent nature of the 
signal, and the duration of the recording, it could not be determined if the ELT signal had begun 
transmitting before or ceased transmitting after these times. Because ELT homing signals sound the 
same for all airplanes, the source could not be determined. However, the ELT sound was recorded by 
only the second of two geographic areas that the airplane flew through and began before the airplane 
arrived near either of those areas. Had the accident airplane's ELT been activated near the start of the 
flight, it is unlikely that it would be detected in the second area and not the first. Additionally, the 
intermittent nature of the ELT signal is more consistent with an ELT located on the ground, rather than 
an airborne activation. An airborne ELT is more likely to have a direct line-of-sight to one or more of 
