Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Valkaria, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA19LA032
Date & Time:
October 27, 2018, 13:15 Local 
Registration:
N154DF
Aircraft:
Titan T51
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot stated that, shortly after takeoff on a local test flight of the experimental, amateur-built 
airplane, the engine surged, with a corresponding fuel pressure fluctuation. Because the engine was 
developing partial power, he elected to return to the airport for landing, but while on the base leg of the 
airport traffic pattern, the engine lost total power. The airplane subsequently impacted a small retention 
pond and came to rest partially submerged in water. Postaccident examination of the engine revealed 
damage to the Nos. 2 and 5 cast aluminum pistons consistent with detonation. The fuel pumps and 
engine control unit were operationally tested with no discrepancies reported. Inspection of the cooling 
system components revealed no evidence of pre-impact failure or malfunction, and no evidence of 
warpage of the cylinder heads was observed.
The owner reported continuing engine overheating problems that occurred at sustained “moderate” 
power settings, which he was unable to correct despite extensive troubleshooting efforts including re-
routing of the coolant reservoir. Although he believed he was operating the engine with a rich fuel-to-air 
ratio, when compared to an identical airplane that was operating successfully, the accident engine was 
being operated in a lean fuel-to-air ratio at all power settings (500 to 5,000 in 250 rpm increments). This 
finding was consistent with the pilot’s report of overheating at sustained moderate power settings.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The partial, then total, loss of engine power due to detonation and associated damage to 
several pistons as a result of an overly lean fuel-to-air ratio.
