Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Mountain Rest, South Carolina
Accident Number:
ERA19LA029
Date & Time:
October 28, 2018, 18:30 Local 
Registration:
N653DC
Aircraft:
Diamond DA20
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
According to the pilot, the airplane was in cruise flight about 6,500 ft mean sea level when the engine 
lost partial power. The pilot stated that he selected a field for a forced landing because no airport was 
within gliding distance. During the descent, the pilot's remedial actions to restore engine power were 
unsuccessful, so he declared an emergency over the radio and secured the engine before the off-airport 
landing. The airframe sustained substantial damage to the wings, fuselage, and empennage during the 
landing.
After the accident, several engine starts were attempted on the airframe, but each was unsuccessful. The 
engine was removed and shipped to the manufacturer, where an engine start was attempted in a test cell. 
The engine ran roughly and would not run continuously. Troubleshooting was performed, and internal 
engine timing and ignition timing were confirmed. Ultimately, both magnetos and both ignition 
harnesses required replacement to achieve a successful engine run. Disassembly of the right magneto 
revealed excessive wear, which rendered it inoperative. The left magneto required cleaning of the points 
to operate, and both ignition harnesses displayed damage due to overtightening of restraint clamps, 
which resulted in ignition "leaks" and intermittent spark at the spark plugs. It is likely that the 
combination of all of the discrepancies of the ignition system ultimately resulted in the engine's partial 
loss of power during the accident flight.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
A partial loss of engine power due to multiple discrepancies of the engine's ignition system.
