Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Cottonwood, California
Accident Number:
WPR19LA017
Date & Time:
October 30, 2018, 09:24 Local 
Registration:
N6414X
Aircraft:
Cessna 180
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel related
Injuries:
1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was approaching the destination airport at an altitude of about 1,500 ft about 1.5 miles from 
the runway threshold, when he attempted to add power by advancing the throttle, but "nothing 
happened." He "cycled" the mixture and the magnetos, but there was no change, and the airplane 
descended below the desired glidepath. The pilot did not use carburetor heat during the approach, and he 
did not apply it following the engine’s failure to respond to the advanced throttle setting. The pilot chose 
to conduct an off-airport landing in a field, during which the airplane stalled while the pilot attempted to 
maneuver over power lines.
There was no evidence of any fuel or oil leaks, thermal or fire damage, or any nonimpact-related 
deficiencies or damage. During a test run, the engine started and functioned normally, except that the 
maximum rpm achieved was slightly below the design specification. The examination and testing did 
not reveal any mechanical reasons for the power loss reported by the pilot.
The ambient temperature and dew point in the area of the accident site about the time of the accident 
were conducive to the development of carburetor icing. Given the lack of mechanical anomalies and the 
pilot's failure to apply carburetor heat during the descent and following the engine’s lack of response to 
the power increase, it is likely that the engine developed carburetor ice during the approach at the 
reduced throttle setting, which resulted in the engine's failure to respond to the pilot's throttle change. 
The pilot's failure to apply carburetor heat during the reduced power descent was contrary to the airplane 
manufacturer's Owner's Manual guidance.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
