Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Bradley, South Dakota
Accident Number:
CEN19FA021
Date & Time:
November 2, 2018, 11:30 Local 
Registration:
N81KD
Aircraft:
Cessna 210
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The non-instrument-rated pilot was conducting a cross-country personal flight. Earlier on the morning of 
the accident, the pilot had diverted from his intended destination airport because of poor weather there. 
After waiting at the diversion airport for about 1.5 hours, the pilot decided to attempt the 35-mile flight 
to the destination airport. During taxi, the pilot called a friend to ask about weather conditions close to 
the destination airport, and the friend advised the pilot that "pretty low clouds" existed. 
The pilot departed and remained at a low altitude until about 3 minutes before the accident, when air 
traffic control radar captured the airplane's altitude at 800 ft above ground level (agl). During the last 
minute of recorded data, the airplane made a climbing left turn of about 90° from an altitude of 1,000 to 
2,100 ft agl and slowed from a groundspeed of 144 to 106 knots. A witness near the accident site heard 
what sounded to be an airplane climbing and descending twice, which was followed by the sound of a 
"loud bang." The airplane impacted terrain with a nose-down attitude at high speed, and a postcrash fire 
ensued. Postaccident examination of the airframe and engine revealed no evidence of mechanical 
malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation. 
Even though the available evidence indicated that the pilot did not request a weather briefing or receive 
weather information from a vendor, the pilot should have known, before the start of the flight, that 
instrument meteorological conditions (IMC) would likely exist near his destination based on the 
information that his friend provided. The weather conditions at the closest official reporting station to 
the accident site during the time surrounding the accident indicated a 500-ft cloud ceiling and reduced 
visibility due to mist, and AIRMETs that were valid for the accident location and time indicated that 
instrument flight rules conditions existed. This information confirmed that the accident airplane was in 
IMC at the time of the accident. 
On a previous flight, the pilot had intentionally flown into IMC conditions with the autopilot on. The 
pilot's decision to fly along a route with low ceilings and his subsequent entry into IMC conditions most 
likely resulted in the pilot becoming spatially disoriented, which led to a steep dive and ground impact.
