Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Cleburne, Texas
Accident Number:
GAA19CA048
Date & Time:
November 1, 2018, 14:00 Local 
Registration:
N3984L
Aircraft:
Cessna 172
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel exhaustion
Injuries:
1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot reported that, during the final approach to the destination airport, the engine lost power. Due to 
homes that were in line with the approach end of the runway, he decided to perform an emergency 
landing in a field, during which the airplane slid and then came to rest in trees. 
The airplane sustained substantial damage to the left wing.
The pilot reported that he had not considered the engine's fuel burn for touch-and-go landings or 
headwinds during his preflight planning. During postaccident examination, a Federal Aviation 
Administration inspector reported that the fuel gauges read zero and that no fuel was found in the right 
fuel tank and only 10 ounces of fuel were found in the left fuel tank. Fuel was added to the airplane, and 
the engine started and operated normally. He added that he talked to the pilot, and he stated that he had 
flown 3.6 hours and performed at least six touch-and-go landings. The pilot also stated that the airplane 
usually has a 3.5-hour maximum range at 1,000 ft above ground level at 8 to 9 gallons per hour and that 
he likely did not properly monitor the engine's fuel consumption, which led to fuel exhaustion. Given 
the evidence, it is likely the pilot did not ensure that there was sufficient fuel onboard the airplane for the 
flight and that he did not monitor it properly during the flight, which resulted in fuel exhaustion and the 
subsequent total loss of engine power.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's improper preflight fuel planning and in-flight fuel management, which resulted in fuel 
exhaustion and the subsequent total loss of engine power. 
