Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Louisa, Virginia
Accident Number:
ERA19FA036
Date & Time:
November 4, 2018, 14:15 Local 
Registration:
N38FD
Aircraft:
Titan TORNADO 1
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot of the experimental amateur-built airplane took off and made a left turn to travel north of the 
airport. A witness at the airport reported that the airplane sounded louder than normal during departure. 
About 1 minute 18 seconds after takeoff, the airplane climbed to an altitude of about 400 feet above 
ground level at a groundspeed of 60 knots. During the next 22 seconds, the airplane descended about 
300 ft and slowed to a groundspeed of 34 knots before impacting a field. The lack of a discernable 
debris path, asymmetric damage to both wings, and the airplane's relatively low ground speed 
immediately before the accident all suggest that the airplane likely departed controlled flight after 
entering an aerodynamic stall and spin.
Examination of the engine revealed no preimpact mechanical malfunctions that would have precluded 
the engine from operating normally. The muffler had a hole measuring about 2 inches in diameter where 
the muffler rear mount attached to the engine. Although the pilot had a headset, if the separation of the 
muffler had occurred during the accident flight, the increased engine noise due to the hole in the muffler 
could have distracted the him, and resulted in his subsequent loss of control and an aerodynamic 
stall/spin.
The pilot had longstanding hypertensive cardiomyopathy, which could have increased his risk of an 
arrhythmia that could have caused palpitations, shortness of breath, anxiety, and/or fainting. However, 
the pilot's medications may have mitigated that risk. Therefore, the investigation could not determine 
from the available information whether the pilot's heart disease contributed to the circumstances of the 
accident.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to maintain airspeed and the airplane's exceedance of its critical angle of 
attack, which resulted in an aerodynamic stall and spin at a low altitude.
