Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Woodstock, Georgia
Accident Number:
ERA19LA037
Date & Time:
November 4, 2018, 09:33 Local 
Registration:
N3515J
Aircraft:
Cessna 150
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
1 Fatal, 1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot and student pilot passenger were departing on a local personal flight from a 2,000-ft-
long turf runway. The passenger reported that the airplane seemed to "struggle to climb" after clearing 
trees near the end of the runway. He heard the stall warning horn activate, and the airplane descended 
into trees and impacted the ground. Witnesses reported that the airplane "wobbled" as it climbed and that 
the right wing dropped before the airplane crashed into the woods.
Although the airplane's most recent annual inspection was completed about 8 years before the accident, 
examination of the airframe and engine did not reveal any evidence of a preaccident malfunction or 
anomaly. A review of the pilot's logbook revealed no current flight review or recent flight experience, 
and the pilot did not hold a current medical certificate. Reported wind conditions at a nearby airport 
indicated that a quartering tailwind may have been present about the time of the accident, with gusts up 
to 20 knots. Based on the available information, it is likely that the pilot failed to maintain airspeed 
during the initial climb in gusting wind conditions, which resulted in an exceedance of the airplane's 
critical angle of attack, an aerodynamic stall, and loss of control.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to maintain airspeed during the initial climb in gusting wind conditions, which 
resulted in an aerodynamic stall and loss of control. Contributing to the accident was the 
pilot's lack of recent flight experience.
