Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Texico, New Mexico
Accident Number:
GAA19CA053
Date & Time:
November 5, 2018, 16:55 Local 
Registration:
N3214P
Aircraft:
Piper PA24
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel exhaustion
Injuries:
2 Minor, 2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot reported that, the day before the accident flight, he had fully refueled the airplane’s fuel tanks 
(60 gallons of fuel), conducted a run-up of the engine, and conducted a local flight around the pattern to 
troubleshoot an electrical issue that was later resolved.
The pilot reported that, on the day of the accident, during the preflight inspection for the cross-country 
flight, the airplane was only "two gallons shy of full." About 2.5 hours into the flight, after switching the 
fuel tanks multiple times en route, he switched to the left main fuel tank to prepare for landing. He 
added that, about 4 miles south of the destination airport, the engine lost power, the airplane was "too 
low," and he set up to land on a nearby road. The airplane landed with the gear retracted and struck 
multiple signs before coming to rest.
The airplane sustained substantial damage to the right wing, fuselage, and empennage.
During a postaccident examination by a Federal Aviation Administration inspector, both fuel tanks were 
found empty, and no evidence of fuel leakage was found at the accident site.  
During a telephone conversation, the pilot reported that the total flight time the day of the accident was 
about 3.1 hours and that he was not aware of any preaccident mechanical failures. He estimated that the 
fuel burn was about 14 gallons per hour and that, during the accident flight, there was about a 17-knot 
headwind.
The Pilot’s Operating Handbook for the airplane stated that, while at 75% power, the airplane has about 
3.7 hours of fuel endurance. Given the evidence, it is likely that the pilot did not ensure that there was 
adequate fuel onboard for the accident flight, which led to fuel exhaustion and a total loss of engine 
power.
 
