Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Burns, Oregon
Accident Number:
WPR19LA020
Date & Time:
October 27, 2018, 07:50 Local 
Registration:
N3267S
Aircraft:
Cessna 182
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Landing gear collapse
Injuries:
3 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
Upon approaching the intended landing area, the pilot performed a high reconnaissance to assess the 
wind conditions. The airplane touched down and, during the landing roll, the left wing dipped 
downward. The left wing made contact with the ground before coming to rest with the left main landing 
gear sheared off. 
The attachment bolt that connected the left main landing gear leg bracket exhibited a fatigue crack that 
had progressed through about one third of the bolt cross-section. This fatigue crack initiated at multiple 
fatigue crack initiation sites along the thread root. This thread root exhibited corrosion pitting that had 
penetrated the outer cadmium plating, which had led to fatigue cracking. When the remainder of the bolt 
could no longer support the stress at landing, the remaining cross section fractured in overstress. As this 
crack had propagated through about one third of the cross section without a discernible transition or 
mixed fracture zone between the fatigue crack and subsequent stress, the final fracture occurred at a high 
load event, such as the accident landing.
The bolts had been plated with cadmium, a corrosion inhibitor. However, corrosion pitting was observed 
along the threads, which led to fatigue cracking in both bolts. Although the cadmium plating can provide 
protection to the underlying alloy steel, corrosion such as in the form of pitting can still occur. This may 
be due to the operational environment, including locations near saltwater, as well as from a crevice 
corrosion mechanism.
With the fatigued bolt having fractured, the bracket would be able to flex or slide out the side. With 
these components able to flex, the bottom of the support housing could not support the downward forces 
from the gear spring, which led to its fracture. This would allow a cantilever force on the inboard 
support, which would have been enough force to fracture the attachment bolt on that support and the 
upper support frame. Although a hard landing would have caused this bolt to fracture, the fatigue crack 
diminished the amount of stress it could withstand.
