Page 1 of 14
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Walton, New York
Accident Number:
ERA19FA039
Date & Time:
November 9, 2018, 15:00 Local 
Registration:
N5044J
Aircraft:
Cessna 310
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Fire/smoke (non-impact)
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was conducting an instrument flight rules flight along a route that he had flown frequently in 
the months before the accident. About 55 minutes into the flight, while at cruise altitude, the pilot stated 
to air traffic control, "I need to get on the ground immediately." The controller provided the pilot with 
the nearest airport information; however, no further intelligible radio transmissions were received from 
the pilot. Radar data showed the airplane enter a turning descent before radar contact was lost about 1.8 
nautical miles from the accident site.
A witness near the accident site heard engines revving up and down for about 1 minute and subsequently 
saw an airplane overhead. She reported that the engines were loud, and as the airplane flew by, she saw 
gray smoke trailing the airplane and a red/orange glow originating from under the right wing area. The 
airplane then flew out of view, and she subsequently heard a loud explosion and saw a plume of smoke.
The distribution of the wreckage was consistent with a high-speed impact. Flight control continuity 
could not be established due to the heavy fragmentation of the wreckage; however, all major flight 
control components were located in the debris field. Examination of the engines revealed no anomalies 
or thermal damage that would have precluded normal operation. Both damage signatures and witness 
accounts indicated that the engines were producing power at the time of the accident.
Autopsy findings were consistent with the pilot's inhalation of smoke/soot before the impact occurred. 
The wreckage also exhibited evidence of an in-flight fire. Small areas of broomstrawing and localized 
thermal damage were found on structures located in the left side of the cockpit area, where the pilot was 
likely seated. In addition, there was evidence of airflow-driven soot tailing on rivets in a few areas of the 
fuselage. The recovered instrument panel, wiring, and avionics showed no signs of electrical arcing or 
fire. Although the airplane's combustion cabin heater was not inspected in accordance with the latest 
airworthiness directive, the interior components of the heater showed no signs of fire. Based on this 
information, the heavy fragmentation of the wreckage, and the postcrash fire to which it was also 
exposed, the origin of the in-flight fire could not be determined.
