Page 1 of 14
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Guthrie Center, Iowa
Accident Number:
WPR19FA022
Date & Time:
November 9, 2018, 17:15 Local 
Registration:
N91770
Aircraft:
Piper PA28
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Powerplant sys/comp malf/fail
Injuries:
4 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
About 45 minutes into the cross-country flight, the student pilot passenger reported to air traffic control 
that the pilot was having a heart attack and that he was going to take control of the airplane and divert to 
an airport about 20 miles away; however, another airport was much closer, and controllers received no 
further communications from the pilot. The student then reported over the nearby airport’s common 
traffic advisory frequency that he would attempt to divert there. GPS flight track data indicated that, a 
short time later, the airplane began to fly in an erratic manner, climbing and descending over the area of 
the diversion airport. The airplane subsequently collided with terrain in a wings-level attitude.
All four occupants sustained fatal injuries, and toxicology testing indicated that all had high levels of 
carboxyhemoglobin, which is caused by the inhalation of carbon monoxide (CO), an odorless, tasteless, 
colorless, nonirritating gas formed by hydrocarbon combustion. Levels in both pilots and one passenger 
where high enough to have caused confusion, seizures, or loss of consciousness. There was no evidence 
the pilot had a heart attack, so his symptoms were likely due to the CO poisoning.
The engine was equipped with three identical exhaust mufflers. Examination of the aft muffler revealed 
a crack that allowed engine exhaust gases to enter the cabin through the cabin heating system.
The muffler’s crack developed as a result of corrosion and thinning of the muffler wall. The crack and 
small perforations in the muffler wall were likely present at the time of the last inspection, which 
occurred shortly before the accident; however, due to damage from impact, it could not be determined if 
the extent of cracking was readily visible at the time of inspection. Also, the crack could have opened 
just before the accident flight due to an engine backfire that occurred during startup.
Use of a pressure check during an inspection could help identify cracks and small perforations that can 
be obscured by oxides and deposits during a visual inspection; however, the manufacturer's service 
manual only recommended a pressure check when a visual inspection could not be accomplished.
