Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Wildwood, New Jersey
Accident Number:
ERA19TA042
Date & Time:
November 10, 2018, 15:30 Local 
Registration:
N78870
Aircraft:
Mooney M20C
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel starvation
Injuries:
1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot reported that the airplane contained 21 gallons of fuel in the left fuel tank and 3 gallons of fuel 
in the right fuel tank before the flight. The pilot performed the engine start, taxi, runup, and takeoff with 
the fuel selector on the right fuel tank. During the initial climb, at an altitude between 100 and 200 ft 
above ground level, the engine sputtered and then lost all power. With about 1,700 ft of runway 
remaining, the pilot entered a right turn, and the airplane impacted the ground left of the runway, 
resulting in substantial damage to the right wing, the left horizontal stabilizer, and left elevator.
Postaccident examination of the airplane found that the right fuel tank contained no fuel, and the left fuel 
tank contained about 20 gallons. The fuel selector was found in the left tank position. It is likely that, 
during the accident sequence, the pilot moved the fuel selector to the left tank position; but the airplane’s 
low altitude at the time of the loss of power provided insufficient time to restore fuel flow before impact. 
The circumstances of the accident are consistent with a total loss of engine power due to fuel starvation 
as a result of the pilot’s mismanagement of the available fuel. Contributing to the accident was the 
pilot’s decision to initiate a 180° turn following the loss of power despite the runway remaining.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot’s improper fuel management, which resulted in a total loss of engine power due to fuel 
starvation during the initial climb. Contributing to the accident was the pilot’s decision to initiate a 180° 
turn following the loss of power. 
