Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Fredericksburg, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN19FA028
Date & Time:
November 17, 2018, 15:15 Local 
Registration:
N4132A
Aircraft:
North American P51
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The commercial pilot was participating in a World War II educational reenactment program with a 
passenger onboard. The purpose of the flight was to perform 4 to 5 passes in front of an amphitheater 
where the reenactment was being conducted. Witnesses at the amphitheater stated that the airplane 
performed a low pass before entering a climb. The airplane then entered a turn followed by a steep 
descent from which it did not recover before disappearing from view behind trees. Although the pilot 
held an authorization to fly the accident airplane at the time of the accident, he had a history of failed 
check rides, airspace violations, and enforcement actions. In each instance, the pilot's certificate was 
issued or reinstated upon reexamination.
The airplane impacted the ground in a near-vertical attitude. The propeller blades exhibited abrasions 
and leading-edge gouges consistent with the engine producing power at impact. All observed flight 
control separations exhibited features consistent with overload. No preimpact anomalies with the engine 
or airframe were found. Toxicology testing detected ethanol in specimens from the pilot consistent with 
postmortem production. Although the pilot had a history of coronary artery disease, there was no 
evidence that this condition contributed to the accident.
The accident pilot ran a charity that provided flights in his warbird airplane to veterans; he typically 
participated in the reenactment program with a veteran seated in the rear seat of his airplane. The 
director of the educational program stated that, in a pre-performance briefing on the day of the accident, 
the pilot was reminded of "all pertinent [Federal Aviation Administration] requirements," including that 
the fly-by be conducted no lower than 1,000 ft above ground level.
Given the available information, the pilot most likely performed a low-level maneuver with a passenger 
on board and was unable to recover from that maneuver before impacting terrain.
