Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Presidio, Texas
Accident Number:
WPR19LA027
Date & Time:
November 14, 2018, 15:42 Local 
Registration:
N1715J
Aircraft:
Piper PA28
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Collision with terr/obj (non-CFIT)
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
Prior to departure, the airplane was fueled with 50 gallons of fuel, which the pilot estimated 
would last for 5 hours of flight time. He planned for a 3 hour and 40-minute flight. 
When the airplane was about 55 miles from the destination airport, the engine began to 
sputter. According to the pilot, the right fuel tank was selected, so he switched to the left fuel 
tank position. The engine ran without any further issues until the left fuel tank ran out of fuel. 
The pilot performed a forced landing to a dirt landing strip without incident. After landing, the 
pilot examined the airplane and determined the right fuel tank was empty and the left tank had 
over 15 gallons of fuel. He started the engine and decided to continue the flight to Presidio, 
Texas. As the airplane reached about 5,500 ft after takeoff, the engine began to lose partial 
power. When the airplane was about 6 miles from the destination airport, the engine lost total 
power. The pilot attempted to land in a dry riverbed; however, the airplane stalled about 20 ft 
above the ground and the landing gear struck terrain damaging the outboard section of the 
right wing.
A postaccident examination of the airplane revealed the fuel tanks were intact; the left fuel tank 
was empty, and the right fuel tank contained approximately 15 gallons of fuel. Because the 
student pilot’s recollection of the available fuel after the first forced landing differs from what 
was found after the accident, the investigation could not determine the reason for the loss of 
engine power. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
