Page 1 of 11
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Gainesville, Georgia
Accident Number:
ERA19FA049
Date & Time:
November 17, 2018, 18:35 Local 
Registration:
N8448J
Aircraft:
Lancair LEGACY RG
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal, 1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The pilot/owner and flight instructor were returning from a cross-country flight and arrived in the 
vicinity of the airport after dark in visual meteorological conditions. The flight instructor requested (to 
the air traffic controller) and was cleared for a practice GPS approach to the runway, which was 
equipped with precision approach path indicator (PAPI) lighting. Flight data indicated the approach was 
flown using the autopilot. Just after the airplane passed the final approach fix, the flaps were partially 
extended, the pitch attitude decreased, and the airplane descended below the glidepath. The autopilot 
commanded nose up elevator and the airplane returned to slightly above the glidepath where it remained 
stable for about 16 seconds, before drifting to nearly a full-scale course deviation above the glidepath. 
The autopilot commanded the elevator to nose down, and the electric pitch trim to near the full nose-
down position. The autopilot was then disconnected. Although the autopilot can automatically disengage 
in the event of a system failure, no failures were observed in the recorded data. Therefore, it was likely 
that the autopilot was manually disengaged. About 15 seconds later, the flaps were extended to full and 
then fully retracted. The descent rate increased, and the airplane descended below the glidepath, until the 
recorded data ended when the airplane was about 0.3 mile from the runway. The airplane then struck 
trees, crossed over a road, and impacted the left side of a localizer antenna platform before coming to 
rest in the grass short of the runway.
Examination of the wreckage and the recorded flight data did not reveal any preimpact electrical or 
mechanical anomalies that would have precluded normal operation. The pilot's guide for the autopilot 
system warned that with the autopilot engaged, a small amount of force on the pitch controls can result 
in the autopilot automatic trim entering an out-of-trim condition. As the airplane drifted above the 
glidepath, the autopilot attempted to command nose-down elevator, and the elevator servo met with 
some resistance, as evidenced by the increase in elevator servo torque, which was sufficient to activate 
the electric pitch trim. Given that there were no indications of a flight control malfunction, it is likely 
that one of the pilots was applying pressure to the elevator control in the cockpit, and the autopilot 
applied elevator trim to counteract that pressure, in its attempt to return to the glidepath.
