Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Liberal, Kansas
Accident Number:
CEN19FA029
Date & Time:
November 17, 2018, 16:57 Local 
Registration:
N4817M
Aircraft:
Beech 55
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Structural icing
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was conducting a personal flight that encountered moderate rime ice while en route to the 
planned destination airport. The pilot attempted to climb from 5,100 to 8,000 ft to allow for the accreted 
ice on the airplane to dissipate, but the airplane was unable to climb and entered an uncontrolled 
descent. The pilot recovered the airplane at an altitude of about 3,500 ft and then diverted to an alternate 
airport. During the approach to the diversion airport, the pilot attempted to maintain visual flight and 
requested a vector for the localizer approach to the airport. The air traffic controller was unable to 
provide those vectors due to the airplane's low altitude. The airplane impacted a power line about 3 
miles south of approach end of the intended landing runway.
Postaccident examination of the airframe and engines revealed no preimpact anomalies that would have 
precluded normal operation of the airplane. The airplane had ice present on the leading edges of the 
horizontal stabilizer and the right-side window.
The airplane was not certified for flight in icing conditions. The airplane had an alcohol deice system for 
the left-side windshield and both propellers. However, postaccident examination of the alcohol reservoir 
revealed that it had not been used for a period of time, and no fluid was found in the lines leading from 
the reservoir; thus the windshield and propeller deice system was likely inoperable at the time of the 
accident.
AIRMET Zulu advisories for moderate ice below 10,000 ft were issued by the National Weather 
Service's Aviation Weather Center and were applicable for the accident airplane's route of flight and the 
airspace over the pilot's destination, the airport he was diverting to, and the accident location. Leidos 
Flight Services indicated that it and any third-party vendor that uses the Leidos system had no contact 
with the accident pilot on the day of the accident. Thus, the pilot would have been unaware of the 
forecast icing conditions.
The airplane's uncontrolled descent from 5,100 to 3,500 ft was most likely the result of reduced airplane 
performance from the ice accretion.
