Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Harmon, North Dakota
Accident Number:
CEN19FA030
Date & Time:
November 17, 2018, 22:40 Local 
Registration:
N441CX
Aircraft:
Cessna 441
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Aircraft structural failure
Injuries:
3 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Positioning
Analysis 
The pilot and two medical crewmembers were repositioning the airplane to pick up a patient for 
aeromedical transport. Dark night instrument meteorological conditions prevailed for the flight. Radar 
data showed the airplane climb to 14,000 ft mean sea level after departure and proceed direct toward the 
destination airport before beginning a right descending turn. The airplane subsequently broke up inflight 
and impacted terrain. No distress calls were received from the pilot before the accident. Although 
weather conditions were conducive for inflight icing, no evidence of structural icing was identified at the 
scene.
The debris field was 2,500 ft long and the disbursement of the wreckage confirmed that both wings, the 
horizontal stabilizer, both elevators, and both engines separated from the airplane before impacting the 
ground. Examination of the wreckage revealed that the initiating failure was the failure of the wing 
where it passed through the center of the airplane. The three wing spars exhibited S-bending 
deformation, indicative of positive overload producing compressive buckling and fracture. Further, 
impact signatures as black paint transfers and gouged aluminum, were consistent with the left outboard 
wing separating when it was struck by the right engine after the wing spars failed. There was no 
evidence of any pre-exiting conditions that would have degraded the strength of the airplane structure at 
the fracture locations. Flight control continuity was confirmed. An examination of the engines, 
propellers, and available systems showed no mechanical malfunctions or failure that could have 
contributed to the accident. The descending right turn was inconsistent with the intended flight track and 
ATC-provided clearance. However, there was insufficient information to determine how it was initiated 
and when the pilot became aware of the airplane's state in the dark night IMC conditions. Yet, the 
absence of a distress call or communication with ATC about the airplane's deviation suggests that the 
pilot was not initially aware of the change in state. The structural failure signatures on the airplane were 
indicative of the wings failing in positive overload, which was consistent with the pilot initiating a pull-
up maneuver that exceeded the airplane spars' structural integrity during an attempted recovery from the 
spiral dive.
