Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Barnesville, Georgia
Accident Number:
ERA19LA052
Date & Time:
November 17, 2018, 11:12 Local 
Registration:
N111TA
Aircraft:
Piper PA28
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
2 Minor, 2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The flight instructor reported that the student pilot was taking off for an instructional flight from an 
upsloping, 3,000-ft-long turf runway with 7- to 8-knot headwinds. The airspeed reached 65 knots and 
was increasing at the predesignated decision point, which was about 60% of the runway length. After 
takeoff, the airplane unexpectedly banked left. The student called out that the flight controls were not 
responding, and the instructor simultaneously took the controls. Realizing that the airplane would not 
clear trees at the departure end of the runway, the instructor chose to land the airplane straight ahead and 
aim it between trees. The airplane touched down about 200 ft before the trees and traveled forward until 
it struck several of them, which resulted in substantial damage to the airframe.
Postaccident examination of the airframe and engine did not reveal evidence of any preaccident 
mechanical malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation. Further, flight control 
continuity was confirmed from the flight control surfaces to the cockpit controls. Given that no 
mechanical anomalies were found during postaccident examination of the airframe, it is likely that the 
student failed to maintain airplane control during takeoff and that the flight instructor's delayed remedial 
action resulted in the subsequent off-runway landing.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The student pilot's failure to maintain airplane control during takeoff and the flight instructor's delayed 
remedial action, which resulted in an off-runway landing and subsequent collision with trees.
