Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Corona, California
Accident Number:
GAA19CA068
Date & Time:
November 19, 2018, 13:50 Local 
Registration:
N322JS
Aircraft:
Silveira Jonathan A SONEX
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Ground collision
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot in the low-wing airplane reported that, while in the traffic pattern at the nontowered airport, he 
made continuous reports on the common traffic advisory frequency (CTAF). He added that, on final, he 
observed a high-wing airplane positioned adjacent to the runway he was approaching. He added that, on 
short final, "the runway was clear," and he heard no radio transmissions. The low-wing airplane 
impacted the high-wing airplane on the runway. The low-wing airplane yawed right and came to rest 
nose down in front of the right wing of the high-wing airplane.
The pilot receiving instruction in the high-wing airplane reported that, after performing a run-up, she 
and the flight instructor taxied to and held short of the departure runway. She added that, during the taxi, 
she and the instructor did not hear radio transmissions on the CTAF from other aircraft in the traffic 
pattern. Before departure, they visually cleared final and base and reported their departure intentions on 
the CTAF. They lined up on the runway for a short-field takeoff, held the brakes, and applied full power. 
She released the brakes and about 3 to 5 seconds into the takeoff roll, they heard a loud noise, and the 
airplane was pushed left. Despite reporting not hearing the other pilots on the CTAF, all the pilots 
reported that they used the same frequency.
The low-wing airplane sustained substantial damage to the left wing. The high-wing airplane sustained 
substantial damage to the right wing and empennage.
Two witnesses in the other airplane reported that, while taxiing, they heard the pilots in the high-wing 
airplane transmit that they were "taking the runway" and departing. They observed the high-wing 
airplane line up on the runway but did not see any aircraft on base or final. Several moments later, they 
looked back and saw the high-wing airplane still on the runway and the low-wing airplane on final. One 
of the witnesses made a call on the CTAF warning the low-wing airplane pilot that another airplane was 
on the runway but heard no response. He made another call to the low-wing airplane pilots to suggest 
that they perform a go-around, and then they observed the low-wing airplane land on top of the high-
wing airplane. 
