Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Bakersfield, California
Incident Number:
WPR19IA030
Date & Time:
November 23, 2018, 17:33 Local 
Registration:
N781FE
Aircraft:
Cessna 208
Aircraft Damage:
None
Defining Event:
Medical event
Injuries:
1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 135: Air taxi & commuter - Non-scheduled
Analysis 
The pilot loaded the cargo onboard the airplane, closed the door, and started the engine with the cabin 
air vents closed, as it was cold outside. While taxiing the airplane to the run-up area, the pilot became 
sleepy, had difficulty breathing, and subsequently became unconscious and unresponsive to tower 
controllers. About 37 minutes after the pilot closed the door of the unvented cockpit, a firefighter 
responded to the airplane, which was still parked in the run-up area, opened the airplane door, and the 
pilot regained consciousness. The airplane was not damaged. 
The shipper of the boxes had grossly underreported the amount of dry ice contained in the boxes due to 
an improperly trained employee who had deposited nearly twice the amount of dry ice in each box. Dry 
ice sublimates into carbon dioxide (CO2), which can lead to loss of consciousness and death at certain 
exposure levels. Within 5 minutes, the airplane's unvented configuration led to a CO2 concentration that 
was twice the Federal Aviation Administration and Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
standards and, within 30 minutes, the concentration reached a level consistent with loss of 
consciousness. 
Based on the CO2 concentrations at the time of the incident, the cause of the pilot's loss of 
consciousness was CO2 poisoning from the sublimation of dry ice in an unventilated space. 
The pilot may still have suffered symptoms from CO2 poisoning and possibly incapacitation had the 
unventilated cabin been loaded with the dry ice weight that was reported on the label; however, proper 
ventilation would have decreased the CO2 concentration in the cabin and may have prevented the pilot's 
loss of consciousness altogether. At the time of the incident, publicly available literature included an 
advisory circular to pilots flying cargo loads of dry ice to maintain an adequate circulation of fresh air. 
Despite the availability of this information, the pilot chose to fly the airplane in an unventilated 
configuration, and the operator did not have any guidance to encourage ventilation, as its policy 
permitted operation with both the overhead and side vents closed. 
