Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Santa Fe, New Mexico
Accident Number:
CEN19FA032
Date & Time:
November 26, 2018, 19:50 Local 
Registration:
N113TA
Aircraft:
Mooney M20C
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Unknown or undetermined
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Positioning
Analysis 
The private pilot departed on a cross-country flight which continued into night visual meteorological 
conditions across sparsely-populated terrain. The destination airport was located about 600 nautical 
miles (nm) northeast of the departure airport; however, the airplane impacted terrain almost 5 hours after 
takeoff near an airport about 330 nm east-northeast of the departure airport and about 120 nm east-
southeast of a direct course between the departure and destination airports. The airplane's route of flight 
could not be determined; however, the location of the accident site suggests that the pilot had become 
lost at some point during the flight. Investigators were not able to determine what, if any route of flight 
planning was conducted by the pilot prior to the flight. 
A witness near the accident site saw the airplane flying over the airport with "no lights whatsoever." His 
perception was that the pilot was not trying to land, but may have been trying to attract the attention of 
the tower controller. The landing gear and wing flaps appeared to be retracted, and the engine was 
running smoothly.
The airplane impacted a ravine about 1/3-mile south of the airport and was destroyed by impact forces 
and a postimpact fire. Postaccident airframe and engine examinations did not reveal any anomalies 
consistent with a preimpact failure or malfunction; however, portions of the airplane were damaged by 
the postimpact fire to the extent that a complete examination of some airplane systems, such as the 
electrical system, were not possible. The airplane did not have a current annual inspection, nor had the 
pilot requested a ferry permit for the flight. 
Based on the available information, the reason the pilot was circling the airport and the airplane's 
subsequent impact with terrain could not be determined. It is likely the pilot became lost at some point 
during the flight and the airplane was likely near its fuel endurance limit at the time of the accident. The 
pilot may have been trying to orient himself by circling the airport or was attempting to alert the tower 
controller before setting up for a landing. However, the investigation was unable to determine whether a 
loss of control preceded the impact with terrain or whether the pilot became low on a landing approach.
