Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Marion, Indiana
Accident Number:
CEN19FA035
Date & Time:
November 29, 2018, 14:21 Local 
Registration:
N7751Y
Aircraft:
Piper PA 30
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The airline transport pilot, who was also an airframe and powerplant mechanic, was conducting a 
personal flight in a twin-engine airplane after troubleshooting an unknown problem with the left engine 
fuel system; a family member described the flight as a "test flight." Witnesses reported that, after 
departure, the airplane climbed to about 500 ft above ground level and began a left turn. During the left 
turn, the airplane "nose dived" in a downward spiral, and the airplane impacted terrain. 
Postaccident examinations revealed no mechanical anomalies with the airframe, right engine, or 
propellers that would have precluded normal operation. The left engine propeller blade damage was 
consistent with low or no power at the time of the accident, and the blades were found in an unfeathered 
position. 
Evidence indicated that the pilot had recently replaced the left and right fuel selector valves and had 
been performing ground engine runs. A comprehensive examination of the airplane's fuel system was 
not possible due to the extensive fire damage to the system. However, given the unknown left engine 
fuel system issue, a loose left fuel selector fuel line, and the lack of power signatures on the left 
propeller blades, it is likely that the fuel system's performance was degraded and led to a partial or total 
loss of left engine power. The airplane's downward spiral was consistent with the pilot exceeding the 
airplane's critical angle of attack during a single-engine operation, which resulted in an aerodynamic 
stall and subsequent loss of control. 
Toxicological testing detected a sedating antihistamine in the pilot's liver specimens, but not in his aortic 
blood specimens, making it less likely that the medication would be impairing. Thus, the pilot's use of 
this medication was likely not a factor in this accident.
Probable Cause and Findings
