Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Kennesaw, Georgia
Accident Number:
ERA19LA057
Date & Time:
November 29, 2018, 18:55 Local 
Registration:
N597CP
Aircraft:
Cirrus SR22
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
2 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
During the descent from 17,500 ft mean sea level (msl), as the airplane was passing through about 7,500 
ft msl, the pilot felt a jolt from the engine and subsequently received a low oil pressure alert. The pilot 
diverted to a closer airport and continued the descent. When the airplane was about 2,000 ft msl, the 
pilot felt additional jolts and observed sparks emanating from the engine cowling area. Shortly 
thereafter, the engine lost total power. With no clear landing area available in nighttime conditions over 
an urban area, he activated the whole-airframe parachute system, and the airplane impacted trees and 
terrain with the parachute deployed. The fuselage, wings, and empennage sustained substantial damage.
Examination of the engine crankcase revealed a fracture hole at the No. 6 cylinder, and the connecting 
rod had sheared from the upper crankshaft bearing. Disassembly of the engine and its components 
revealed that the left turbocharger had seized; rub marks were observed inside the turbine housing; metal 
contaminants were found inside the oil filter; and the oil sump contained damaged connecting rod ends, 
valve lifters, and engine bearings. The damage is consistent with an oil circulation interruption and 
catastrophic engine failure. The source of the interruption of oil circulation to the engine could not be 
determined after engine disassembly.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The total loss of engine power due to the interruption of oil circulation for reasons that could not be 
determined based on the available evidence.
