Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Apalachicola, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA19FA059
Date & Time:
November 30, 2018, 18:05 Local 
Registration:
N3995Y
Aircraft:
Cessna 210
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Controlled flight into terr/obj (CFIT)
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot had departed on the second leg of a cross-country flight just after the end of civil 
twilight. Another pilot approaching the airport from the west reported seeing the airplane as it departed 
to the east and communicating with the pilot over the radio. Soon afterward, the other pilot observed a 
fireball. The wreckage was subsequently found in a remote, unlit marsh about 2 miles north of the 
airport. The pilot did not make any distress calls over the radio.
Examination of the wreckage and accident site indicated a high-energy, near-wings-level impact at a 
shallow descent angle, which was consistent with controlled flight into terrain. The landing gear was 
down, and the flaps were up. The wreckage examination revealed no evidence of a preaccident 
mechanical failure or malfunction that would have precluded normal operation of the airframe or engine.
The accident occurred at the end of civil twilight, and, because of the cloud cover, no moon would have 
been visible. The lack of external lighting cues as the pilot took off over an area with no lights would 
have been conducive to the development of spatial disorientation. The pilot likely experienced a 
vestibular illusion and/or spatial disorientation and allowed the airplane to descend into the marsh under 
controlled flight.
The pilot's diabetes was well controlled and thus not a factor in this accident. Toxicology testing 
revealed the pilot's use of venlafaxine, an antidepressant. The cognitive impairment associated with 
depression could have made the pilot more susceptible to spatial disorientation and less able to 
recognize the situation and respond quickly. However, given the available evidence, the investigation 
could not determine whether cognitive impairment related to depression contributed to the accident.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's controlled flight into terrain as a result of his spatial disorientation during departure 
