Page 1 of 12
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Fort Lauderdale, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA19FA060
Date & Time:
December 1, 2018, 13:27 Local 
Registration:
N79HP
Aircraft:
Cessna 335
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
2 Fatal, 1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot and pilot-rated passenger were planning to conduct a repositioning flight. Shortly after takeoff, 
a video depicted white smoke trailing the airplane from the left engine. Subsequently the flight advised 
the tower controller that there was a fire in the left engine and the airplane was observed turning to the 
left to return to the airport. While maintaining controlled flight with the landing gear retracted and the 
left propeller in an unfeathered position, the airplane clipped the roof of a building adjacent to the 
airport, impacted the ground about 67 knots ground speed, and came to rest after impacting another 
building. A postimpact fire ensued. At ground impact, the left and right propellers were rotating about 
900 rpm and 2,700 rpm, respectively. Postaccident examination of the left engine revealed detonation 
damage to several pistons, and the rod-oil gauge and cap assembly was not attached to the engine. 
Examination of the oil filler breather assembly revealed contact marks consistent with the rod-oil gauge 
and cap assembly coming out. There was no evidence of preimpact failure or malfunction of the right 
engine, propeller, or propeller governor.
Although the flight reported a fire in the left engine compartment to air traffic control, and the video 
showed trailing smoke, it is likely the left engine’s damaged pistons allowed the crankcase to become 
pressurized and the missing rod-oil gauge and cap assembly allowed oil to exit the engine and contact 
either the exhaust or turbocharger exhaust duct, resulting in the smoke.
Although the left propeller and propeller governor were heat damaged, there was no evidence of 
preimpact failure or malfunction of either that would have precluded feathering of the propeller blades. 
The pilot's failure to feather the left propeller following the partial loss of left engine power resulted in a 
negative climb performance. Had the pilot feathered the left propeller following the partial loss of 
engine power, it is likely that a positive rate of climb could have been attained.
 The airplane had been flown once in the last several years before the accident pilot purchased it several 
months before the accident. Maintenance records located within the wreckage at the accident site 
