Page 1 of 18
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Memphis, Indiana
Accident Number:
CEN19FA036
Date & Time:
November 30, 2018, 10:28 Local 
Registration:
N525EG
Aircraft:
Cessna 525
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Flight control sys malf/fail
Injuries:
3 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Business
Analysis 
The pilot and two passengers departed in instrument meteorological conditions on a cross-
country flight. According to the airplane’s automatic dependent surveillance–broadcast (ADS-
B) data, the airplane climbed to about 1,400 ft mean sea level (msl) before it turned left onto a 
track toward the assigned fix and continued to climb. The pilot contacted air traffic control and 
was assigned 10,000 ft; he turned the autopilot on and adjusted the selected altitude to 10,000 
ft. The airplane passed 3,000 ft, with airspeed between 230 and 240 kts, and continued to 
climb. The airplane then began to bank to the left at a rate of about 5° per second. After the 
onset of the roll, the airplane maintained airspeed and continued to climb for 12 seconds, 
which indicated that engine power was not reduced in response to the roll onset. 
When the airplane reached about 30° of left bank, about 3 seconds after the onset of the roll, 
the autopilot disconnected accompanied by an aural alert. About 1 second later, the cockpit 
voice recorder (CVR) recorded a statement by the pilot consistent with surprise, likely made in 
response to the autopilot disconnect and/or the bank angle. Based on the pilot’s statement of 
surprise, it is unlikely that the pilot commanded the left bank. The airplane continued its climb 
and reached a maximum altitude of about 6,100 ft msl before it began to rapidly descend, with 
its left bank angle reaching near 90°. During the descent, the airplane’s enhanced ground 
proximity warning system announced eight “bank angle” annunciations and one “overspeed 
warning” annunciation.
About 23 seconds after the autopilot disconnected, the pilot made a mayday call shouting that 
he was “…in an emergency descent unable to gain control of the aircraft.” At the final ADS-B 
data point, the airplane was at an altitude of about 1,000 ft msl, at an airspeed of about 380 
kts, and in a 53° left bank. The airplane impacted a wooded area about 8.5 miles northwest of 
the departure airport. The total time from the beginning of the left bank until ground impact 
was about 35 seconds.
