Page 1 of 11
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Fargo, North Dakota
Accident Number:
CEN19LA039
Date & Time:
November 30, 2018, 13:53 Local 
Registration:
N941JM
Aircraft:
Cessna 550
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
9 Minor, 2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation
Analysis 
The commercial pilot was conducting a cross-country, business flight with 10 passengers onboard the 8-
passenger airplane. He reported that air traffic control cleared the flight for an instrument landing system 
(ILS) approach to the runway. While descending, the airplane entered instrument meteorological 
conditions (IMC) at 3,100 ft mean sea level (msl), and ice started to accumulate on the wing's leading 
edges, empennage, and windshield. The pilot activated the pneumatic deice boots multiple times during 
the approach and slowed the airplane to 120 knots. The airplane then exited the clouds about 400 ft 
above ground level (agl), and the pilot maintained 120 knots as the airplane flew over the airport fence; 
all indications for landing were normal. About 100 ft agl, the airplane started to pull right. He applied 
left correction inputs, but the airplane continued to pull right. He applied engine power to conduct a go-
around, but the airplane landed in grass right of the runway, sustaining damage to the wings and landing 
gear. Witnesses and passengers reported that the airplane stalled. 
During examination of the airplane immediately after the accident, about 1/2 to 1 inch of mixed ice was 
found on the right wing's leading edge, the vertical and horizontal stabilizers, and the angle of attack 
probe. Ice was also observed on the windshield. The flaps were found in the "up" position. Flight control 
continuity was established. 
Although the airplane was originally certificated for two-pilot operation, the pilot was flying the airplane 
under a single-pilot exemption. The pilot received a logbook endorsement indicating that he had 
received single-pilot training and was properly qualified under the single-pilot exemption. However, he 
had not met the turbine flight time qualifications (1,000 hours) to be properly authorized to conduct the 
flight under the single-pilot exemption because he only had 500 hours. 
A review of cockpit voice recorder information indicated that, although the pilot verbalized that the 
landing gear was "all green," followed by stating "check, check, check," he did not verbalize all the 
approach or landing checklist items nor did he make any audible comments about activating the 
pneumatic deice boots or windshield anti-ice.
