Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
SUNNS intersection, Osaka, 
Accident Number:
DCA19CA034
Date & Time:
December 4, 2018, 18:00 UTC 
Registration:
N193DN
Aircraft:
Boeing 767
Aircraft Damage:
None
Defining Event:
Turbulence encounter
Injuries:
1 Serious, 2 Minor, 92 
None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 121: Air carrier - Scheduled
Analysis 
On December 4, 2018, about 2130 Japan standard time, Delta Air Lines flight 278, N193DN, a Boeing 
767-300ER, encountered severe turbulence during cruise. Of the 95 passengers and crew onboard, one 
flight attendant received serious injuries and two flight attendants received minor injuries. The airplane 
was not damaged. The regularly scheduled international passenger flight was operating under the 
provisions of 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121 from Kansai International Airport (RJBB), 
Osaka, Japan, to Honolulu International Airport (PHNL), Honolulu, Hawaii.
The first officer was the pilot flying, and the captain was pilot monitoring. According to the captain, the 
flight had experienced continuous light turbulence during the climb. Upon reaching FL350, in the 
moonless night, and in smooth air, the captain said that he deactivated the seat belt sign, and released the 
flight attendants to begin cabin service, while also giving a precautionary notice on the interphone to 
remain seated with the seatbelts fastened as much as possible. He added that the weather radar was set 
with the Gain on AUTO, and it was depicting green radar returns on its display. 
He said that they were approaching SUNNS intersection and noted that the radar showed a light green 
return. He said he discussed it with the first officer, and they both agreed to request a turn and a climb to 
avoid the depicted weather. After clearance was given to make the turn, the captain said that he turned 
the seatbelt sign ON, and made an announcement for everyone, including the flight attendants, to be 
seated.  
As the flight made the course deviation to avoid the weather, the captain indicated that the radar gave 
more definition in its depiction, and the lightning illumination emanating from the cloud showed that the 
cloud extended about 1,000 feet above their flight level, so they continued the turn to remain outside the 
green weather return depiction. He said that the radar depiction suddenly showed a faint dot of red at its 
center, and at that time the ride went immediately from smooth to severe turbulence, without any 
intervening intermediate intensities being noted.  
