Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
LAS Vegas, Nevada
Accident Number:
DCA19CA037
Date & Time:
December 1, 2018, 02:07 UTC 
Registration:
N632NK
Aircraft:
Airbus A320
Aircraft Damage:
None
Defining Event:
Turbulence encounter
Injuries:
1 Serious, 162 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 121: Air carrier - Scheduled
Analysis 
On December 1, 2018, about 1804 Pacific standard time, Spirit Airlines flight 1069, an Airbus A320-
232, N632NK, encountered turbulence during initial descent into Las Vegas McCarran International 
Airport (KLAS), Las Vegas, Nevada.  Of the 163 passengers and crew onboard, one flight attendant was 
seriously injured. The airplane was not damaged. The regularly scheduled international passenger flight 
was operating under the provisions of 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121 from Cleveland Hopkins 
International Airport (KCLE) to KLAS.
The captain was the pilot flying, and the first officer was the pilot monitoring. According to the flight 
crew, there was reports of moderate turbulence during the initial descent.  During the decent, the flight 
passed through stratiform cloud layers experiencing continuous light and occasional moderate chop, but 
no precipitation was depicted on the weather radar. At about flight level (FL) 260, the first officer turned 
on the seatbelt sign and contacted the lead flight attendant (FA) to have all the FAs take their seats.
As the airplane descended through about FL230, the flight experienced moderate turbulence which 
lasted for about 15-20 seconds. Shortly thereafter, the flight crew received a call from the lead FA that a 
FA had broken her ankle. 
At the time of the turbulence encounter, the FAs were preparing the cabin for landing.  Two FAs were in 
the aft galley and were thrown into the air and onto the floor.  One FA severely injured her left ankle and 
was subsequently helped into an aft passenger seat, where she remained for landing. After landing, 
emergency medical personnel met the flight at the gate and transported the injured FA to the hospital 
where she was diagnosed with a fractured left fibula.  
Probable Cause and Findings
