Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Paramus, New Jersey
Accident Number:
ERA19LA062
Date & Time:
December 9, 2018, 12:15 Local 
Registration:
N5756W
Aircraft:
Mooney M20K
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
2 Minor, 2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
During cruise flight, the pilot noticed an increase in cylinder head temperature on two cylinders and 
unsuccessfully attempted to reduce the temperature. He reported that he soon heard "an explosion" and 
noted a hole in the engine cowling. He performed a forced landing to a golf course, during which the 
landing gear collapsed, which resulted in substantial damage to the right wing.
Postaccident examination of the engine revealed that the Nos. 1 and 2 connecting rods exhibited thermal 
discoloration consistent with a loss of lubrication. Additionally, the breakaway torques measured at 8 of 
the 12 through-bolts showed that they were below the manufacturer's specifications. The No. 2 main 
bearing saddles exhibited impingement damage, and the No. 2 bearing was partially rotated clockwise, 
which blocked the oil passages leading to the connecting rod bearings. The mating surfaces of the main 
bearing saddles had remnants of silk thread around the through-bolt holes, which was contrary to 
manufacturer guidance that prohibited placing silk thread in these areas. Given this information, it is 
likely that maintenance personnel applied silk thread to a prohibited area during an engine overhaul that 
occurred about 255.8 flight hours before the accident. This resulted in a loss of torque on the crankcase 
through-bolts, which allowed the No. 2 main bearings to shift, resulting in restriction of lubrication to 
that area and subsequent engine failure.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
Maintenance personnel's improper assembly of the engine during overhaul, which resulted in lubrication 
restriction due to a bearing shift and the subsequent engine failure.
