Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Punta Gorda, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA19LA065
Date & Time:
December 13, 2018, 14:00 Local 
Registration:
N145MM
Aircraft:
CZECH SPORT AIRCRAFT AS Piper 
Sport
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel related
Injuries:
1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
While on an extended base leg of the airport traffic pattern, the pilot reduced engine power and 
turned on the electrical auxiliary fuel pump; the engine then lost all power. He attempted to 
restart the engine but was unsuccessful. The pilot executed a forced landing to a field. During 
landing, the airplane struck a fence and utility pole and sustained substantial damage to both 
wings. 
On-site examination of the airplane revealed that fuel was present in both fuel tanks after the 
accident. Postaccident examination of the airframe and test runs of the engine did not reveal 
any preimpact electrical or mechanical anomalies that would have precluded normal operation. 
During multiple engine test runs, the electric auxiliary fuel pump was cycled several times and 
operated normally. 
A review of the recorded data captured by an engine monitor revealed that, during the accident 
flight, the oil temperature, cylinder head temperature, and exhaust gas temperature were all 
within the operating limits specified by the manufacturer. The fuel pressure and fuel flow 
values during cruise were within the normal range. When the engine lost power, the data 
showed a temporary decrease in fuel pressure below the minimum pressure specified by the 
engine manufacturer and subsequent decrease in the fuel flow to 0 gallons per hour. After 
impact, the fuel pressure returned to the normal range.
Because the engine operated satisfactorily after the accident both with and without the electric 
auxiliary fuel pump activated, it is unlikely that the engine lost power due to a fuel pump 
failure. During the accident flight, the recorded values for fuel flow were not abnormally high 
or erratic, and the cylinder head temperatures were below the maximum limit, so it was 
unlikely that air or vaporized fuel passed through the fuel flow sensor. An obstruction in the 
fuel system upstream of the fuel pressure sensor (or exhaustion of the fuel supply) could have 
