Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Riggins, Idaho
Accident Number:
GAA19CA098
Date & Time:
December 16, 2018, 12:00 Local 
Registration:
N4385B
Aircraft:
Cessna 170
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Positioning
Analysis 
The pilot of the ski-equipped airplane reported that he aborted his first attempt to take off, and during his 
second takeoff attempt with a tailwind, shortly after rotation, the airplane settled back onto the snow-
packed runway. He added that the airplane lifted off again, but when it was about 5 ft above the ground 
and near the end of the runway, a wind gust pushed the airplane down onto the runway. Subsequently, 
the airplane overran the runway, and the right wing impacted a tree. The pilot did not know the wind 
direction and speed because the airport did not have a windsock or weather reporting station. 
The airplane sustained substantial damage to the wings.
The pilot reported that there were no preimpact mechanical failures or malfunctions with the airplane 
that would have precluded normal operation. 
The pilot chose to depart to the north due to rising terrain and tall trees on the south end of runway. The 
pilot further reported he had landed and taken off from this airport previously without incident.
The airport elevation was about 7,600 ft, and the runway was 1,800 ft long. The airplane owner's manual 
recommended a takeoff distance of 3,420 ft at 7,000 ft elevation and 40°F with zero wind velocity and 
from a hard level surface. The manual also stated that, under the most favorable condition of smooth, 
packed snow at 30°F, the takeoff distance for a ski-equipped airplane was about 10% greater than that 
for a wheel-equipped airplane. Per a supplemental type certificate (STC), the airplane underwent an 
engine conversion to a 180-horsepower, constant-speed propeller engine. No takeoff performance data 
were provided on the STC. 
Probable Cause and Findings
