Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Aberdeen, Idaho
Accident Number:
WPR19FA042
Date & Time:
December 17, 2018, 07:55 Local 
Registration:
N6283P
Aircraft:
Piper PA-24-250
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
 Security camera video captured the airplane during the initial climb after takeoff.  The video showed 
that as the airplane entered the view of the camera, it appeared to be in a shallow climb; however, about 
14 seconds later, the airplane descended in a near vertical manner, out of view of the camera. The 
airplane impacted open terrain about 1,850 ft west of the departure end of the runway. Examination of 
the airframe revealed no mechanical anomalies that would have precluded normal operation; however, 
the left fuel selector valve was in the left wingtip tank position, and the right selector valve was in in a 
position between the right main fuel tank and right wingtip tank position. The Airplane Flight Manual 
Supplement for the wingtip fuel tank installation stated that the wingtip tank fuel was to be used in level 
flight only. It is likely that because of the placement of the fuel port in the wingtip fuel tanks, when the 
airplane was in a climb attitude, the fuel may not have reached the fuel port in the tank. As a result, the 
pilot’s improper positioning of the fuel valves could have led to fuel starvation during the takeoff climb 
and resulted in a loss of engine power.  
Additionally, examination of the engine revealed that both magnetos were found in poor condition and 
showed evidence of little maintenance being performed. The left magneto drive shaft would not rotate. 
Disassembly of the left magneto revealed excessive wear on the bearing race that is attached to the drive 
shaft. The excessive wear allowed the magnets to contact the magneto housing, which resulted in the 
magneto being grounded, thus inoperative. The inoperative magneto would have partially reduced 
engine power.   
It is likely that the pilot experienced a loss of engine power to some degree during takeoff initial climb 
and his attention could have been diverted as part of troubleshooting the loss of engine power.  The 
pilot's diverted attention most likely allowed for the airplane to exceed its critical angle of attack, 
resulting in a stall and subsequent spin at an altitude too low for recovery. 
