Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Fredericksburg, Virginia
Accident Number:
ERA19FA066
Date & Time:
December 14, 2018, 07:40 Local 
Registration:
N350FT
Aircraft:
Eipper Quicksilver
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The commercial pilot was operating an experimental amateur-built airplane on a personal flight in the 
airport traffic pattern. Video and audio recovered from an airframe-mounted camera, along with track 
data recorded by two onboard GPS receivers, revealed that, during the initial climb, the throttle was 
reduced, and then increased back to climb engine power for the upwind and crosswind legs of the traffic 
pattern. As the airplane turned toward the downwind leg at an altitude of about 300 feet, the throttle was 
reduced, increased briefly, and then was reduced again to what sounded consistent with an idle setting. 
The video and GPS track data showed that rather than aligning with the downwind leg of the traffic 
pattern, the airplane continued in a tightening, steepening, left turn with the engine at idle power. The 
airplane's last GPS-recorded position was over the accident site. The GPS data also showed that the 
airplane's groundspeed during the turn was near the airplane's published/placarded stall speeds. Just 
before ground impact, the video camera recorded a "pop" sound consistent with activation of the 
airplane's ballistic recovery system parachute. Postaccident examination of the airframe and engine 
revealed no preimpact mechanical anomalies that would have precluded normal operation.
The pilot had purchased the airplane about 3 months before the accident. At the time of purchase, the 
airplane had an open-cockpit, tubular-framed configuration. The pilot subsequently enclosed the open 
cockpit using PVC tubing, sheets of plexiglass, and zip ties. The investigation could not determine 
whether the cockpit modifications affected the handling and stall characteristics of the airplane. These 
modifications notwithstanding, the GPS data showed that the airplane was operating at or near its stall 
speed, had entered a tight left turn, and had likely encountered an aerodynamic stall before it descended 
to ground impact.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's exceedance of the airplane's critical angle of attack, which led to an aerodynamic 
stall while turning in the traffic pattern at low altitude.
