Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Bell Glade, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA19LA069
Date & Time:
December 17, 2018, 12:10 Local 
Registration:
N4886B
Aircraft:
Cessna 152
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot reported that, while conducting a personal, cross-country flight and descending from 
cruise level, the engine began gradually losing power, so he applied carburetor heat, which initially 
restored cruise power. Several minutes later, the engine again lost partial power and began to vibrate. 
The engine continued to lose power, and the airplane was unable to maintain altitude. The pilot chose to 
execute a forced landing on a field, during which the nosewheel dug into the ground, and the airplane 
subsequently nosed over.
 
Examination of the engine revealed that the No. 1 intake valve was stuck in the valve guide and that the 
upper valve spring seat on the No. 1 cylinder was broken. Detailed examination revealed contact marks 
on the interior and end faces of the valve keeper and pitting and radial cracks in the intake valve head. 
The valve springs' strength was found to be within serviceable limits. The rocker arm contact wear 
pattern on the valve tip was abnormal.
It is likely that, during operation, the intake valve keeper was dislodged and then became wedged in the 
valve spring seat until the valve spring seat fractured, at which time the intake valve became stuck in the 
valve guide. This resulted in a loss of compression to that cylinder and the subsequent partial loss of 
engine power. The contact marks on the interior and end faces of the valve keeper indicate that the 
keeper had been dislodged for some time while the engine operated and that the valve spring seat was 
intact. The pitting and radial cracks in the intake valve head indicate that the engine was operated while 
the valve was not seating properly, which is also consistent with operation with a dislodged valve 
keeper. The lack of a normal rocker arm contact wear pattern on the valve tip indicates that the valve 
keeper likely became dislodged soon after the valve was placed into service.
The engine manufacturer's Operator's Manual recommended periodic inspections (every 400 flight 
hours) of the intake valve. During a review of the engine maintenance records, no records were found 
