Page 1 of 12
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Mayport, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA19LA072
Date & Time:
December 20, 2018, 09:04 Local 
Registration:
N307JM
Aircraft:
Piper PA46
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot and his pilot-rated passenger departed under instrument flight rules for a personal 
cross-country flight and climbed first to 19,000 ft mean sea level (msl), then to 23,000 ft msl 
several minutes later. Weather and air traffic control radar information indicated that the 
airplane had been operating in an area of heavy precipitation for about 20 minutes before it 
entered a descending right turn. A section of the right wing separated as the airplane 
descended, and the airplane impacted water. Performance calculations revealed that, shortly 
before the airplane began its descent, its airspeed decreased to between 77 and 90 knots 
indicated (KIAS). The airplane’s published stall speed at maximum gross weight was 69 KIAS. 
Because accumulation of ice on the unprotected areas of the airframe increased the airplane’s 
stall speed, with aerodynamic buffeting occurring up to 19 knots above the normal stall speed, 
the manufacturer stated that flight in icing conditions should be conducted at a speed not 
lower than 130 KIAS. 
Postaccident examination of the airplane’s flight controls and icing protection system 
components revealed no evidence of preimpact failure or malfunction. While the filament of 
the stall warning fail and windshield heat fail warning light bulbs were broken and stretched, 
potentially consistent with illumination at impact, it could not be determined at what portion 
of the flight the bulb(s) might have illuminated. Based on the environmental conditions at the 
time, the stall warning system was likely not accurate or reliable. Although fatigue cracks were 
noted in the right wing spar web, the cracks did not contribute to the inflight break-up.
The pilot received a preflight weather briefing that included a convective SIGMET outlook and 
an AIRMET for icing between about 14,000 ft and 27,000 ft msl, valid for the area of the 
accident site about the time of the accident. Although the pilot did not access specific icing 
forecasts, which likely understated the potential for icing conditions, there was sufficient 
information available to the pilot to indicate possible icing at his chosen cruise altitude. The 
airplane was operating above the freezing level near the top of a mature cumulus cloud 
