Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Watkins, Colorado
Accident Number:
CEN19LA048
Date & Time:
December 25, 2018, 09:48 Local 
Registration:
N711KJ
Aircraft:
Vans RV 6
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Fire/smoke (non-impact)
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot reported that he’d been conducting touch-and-go landings in the traffic pattern. 
During initial climb for the second touch-and-go landing and once the airplane reached 
between about 200 and 300 ft above ground level, he smelled an unusual odor and noticed 
flames coming from the floor forward of his rudder pedals. The pilot added that he 
“immediately rejected the takeoff” and declared an emergency. He then landed the airplane on 
the departure runway, exited the runway onto a taxiway, and then stopped the airplane. The 
pilot subsequently turned off the fuel valve, shut down the engine by pulling the mixture to full 
lean, turned off the fuel valve and electrical power switches, and then exited the airplane. A 
postcrash fire ensued, which consumed the airplane.
The pilot stated that he had installed all new fuel lines about 1 month or 1.5 flight hours before 
the accident flight. Postaccident engine examination revealed that all four fuel lines exhibited 
thermal damage and soot on their exteriors, consistent with exposure to fire. An end of one of 
the fuel lines had soot deposits in the first three threads of the line’s attachment fitting. If the 
fuel line had been secured at the time of the fire, no soot deposits would have been inside the 
threaded fitting. Therefore, it is likely that the fuel line loosened during flight due to the pilot’s 
failure to apply adequate torque to the line during installation, which allowed fuel to enter the 
hot engine compartment and led to an in-flight fire that consumed the airplane.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
