Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
McCormick, South Carolina
Accident Number:
ERA19LA074
Date & Time:
December 19, 2018, 14:20 Local 
Registration:
N346MA
Aircraft:
Diamond DA20
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel related
Injuries:
2 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Flight test
Analysis 
After the accident airplane experienced a partial loss of engine power the previous day, the accident 
pilot/mechanic was dispatched to perform maintenance on the airplane. The previous pilot reported that 
after landing, the engine would not run with the electric fuel pump turned off. The engine would run 
slightly better if the primer was on.
The accident pilot/mechanic replaced the throttle and metering unit, the engine-driven fuel pump, and 
the manifold valve with overhauled units. He set the metered and unmetered fuel pressures to within 
specifications and the engine ran satisfactorily. A preflight inspection revealed no anomalies, and the 
pilot departed. After takeoff, the pilot initially remained in the traffic pattern until he was satisfied that 
the engine was performing normally. He then began to climb and proceeded toward his destination when 
the engine lost partial power and would not respond to throttle inputs. The pilot performed a forced 
landing to a nearby clearing, during which the airplane impacted trees, resulting in substantial damage to 
the fuselage and left wing.  
A test run of the engine at the manufacturer’s facility found that it ran very rough and would not idle. 
Similar to the conditions reported by the previous pilot, the engine would remain running only when the 
test stand fuel boost pressure was increased beyond the normal values. 
Examination of the throttle and metering unit revealed debris lodged in the metering plug orifice, 
obstructing about 90% of the opening. When the debris was removed, the engine ran normally and 
within manufacturer specifications. Examination of the debris found that it was similar in composition to 
a sample of torque putty, commonly used to mark threaded fittings after assembly; however, there was 
no indication that torque putty was used on any of the as-installed fuel system components or on the 
components that were removed before the accident. Similar debris was found in the previously installed 
manifold valve (the one removed prior to the accident flight) downstream of the internal filter screen. 
