Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Sioux Falls, South Dakota
Accident Number:
CEN19LA049
Date & Time:
December 25, 2018, 17:03 Local 
Registration:
N6745V
Aircraft:
Beech 58
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot and passenger were on a cross-country flight and an instrument flight rules approach in 
instrument meteorological conditions. According to air traffic control transcripts, an air traffic controller 
at the destination airport cleared the flight for the RNAV approach for runway 33. According to ADS-B 
flight track data, the airplane then turned toward the final approach path just inside the initial approach 
fix at 3,100 ft mean sea level (msl) and 156 knots calibrated airspeed (KCAS). Subsequently, the 
airplane proceeded west of the final approach centerline, turned back through the centerline to the east, 
and then back to the west, resembling s-turns through the extended centerline. During the s-turns across 
the extended centerline, the controller cleared the airplane to land. Two minutes later, the airplane was 
about 3,000 ft msl and 78 KCAS, and then began to rapidly descend. 
According to a witness and video footage of the accident, the airplane descended in a steep, nose-down 
attitude. The witness added that it appeared that he then “saw airplane try to pull out of a dive” just 
before it impacted the ground. 
The airplane impacted trees and a building and then came to rest in a residential neighborhood about 200 
ft south of the last radar location. The airplane was massively fragmented and a postimpact fire ensued. 
Impact and fire damage precluded a thorough examination and functional testing of the related airplane 
systems. Examination of both engines and propeller assemblies revealed signatures consistent with 
symmetric power development at the time of the accident. 
According to a family member of the pilot, 3 months before the accident, the pilot was en route at 
altitude when the airplane suddenly nosed over. According to a work order, 3 weeks before the accident, 
the autopilot was removed and repaired. The repair station owner reported that, after a flight 3 days 
before the accident, the pilot told him that he had no issues with the airplane and that the flight was 
uneventful. 
