Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Chesaning, Michigan
Accident Number:
CEN19LA050
Date & Time:
December 29, 2018, 10:23 Local 
Registration:
N1095V
Aircraft:
Cessna R172K
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot departed on a personal flight about 10 minutes before the accident. According to a witness, the 
pilot was conducting touch-and-go landings at the airport when the engine "cut out" and the airplane 
went "straight down." Two other witnesses described a steep bank or a sharp turn before the airplane 
descended at a steep angle and impacted the ground and then a building. The pilot was fatally injured. 
Ground scars at the accident site and damage to the airplane were consistent with a left-wing-low 
attitude and the engine operating at high power at the time of impact. The airplane's steep bank and 
descent at a steep angle were consistent with a loss of control. The examination of the airplane and 
engine revealed no mechanical malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operations.
Toxicology testing revealed the pilot was using a combination of phenobarbital and phenytoin at the 
time of the accident. Although these drugs can cause various impairing symptoms, the type of 
impairment that these drugs cause is unlikely to lead to a sudden loss of control. Both drugs can be used 
to prevent seizures in patients with epilepsy. Although a seizure or other neurologic event causing 
sudden incapacitation could have occurred without leaving autopsy evidence, there was not enough 
available information to indicate that the pilot had an increased risk of such an event. Thus, the 
investigation could not determine, based on the available information, whether the pilot's loss of airplane 
control was related to a medical issue.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
