Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Norwood, Colorado
Accident Number:
CEN19LA061
Date & Time:
December 23, 2018, 15:10 Local 
Registration:
N3120S
Aircraft:
Cessna 182
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was conducting a personal flight. During the flight, he monitored the carburetor temperature 
gauge and used full, partial, and no carburetor heat settings as appropriate. While landing at his private, 
high-elevation airport, he initially had partial carburetor heat selected but then turned it off as he 
typically did to preclude ingestion of unfiltered air into the engine while landing on a dirt runway. 
During the approach, the airplane drifted left of the runway, so the pilot decided to go around. He 
advanced the engine power slightly, but the engine did not respond. He then advanced the engine power 
to full, but the engine still did not respond. The pilot then conducted a steep right turn and applied right 
rudder to land the airplane on the runway and avoid trees. He was not certain if the airplane stalled, but 
the right wingtip contacted the ground, and the airplane "pancaked" on the runway. The airplane 
sustained substantial damage to the fuselage and both wings. 
After the accident, the pilot stated that he did not “adequately” clear the carburetor during the approach 
and that it was possible the carburetor had "iced up" during the descent. However, the temperature and 
dew point at the time of the accident put the airplane outside of conditions conducive for icing; 
therefore, it is unlikely that carburetor accumulated icing. Thus, the reason for the loss of engine power 
could not be determined based on the available evidence.
 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The partial loss of engine power for undetermined reasons.
