Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Petersburg, West Virginia
Accident Number:
ERA19LA086
Date & Time:
November 18, 2018, 12:47 Local 
Registration:
N88VZ
Aircraft:
Piper PA46
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control on ground
Injuries:
3 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot was landing the airplane with the yaw damper off, the rudder trim near 
neutral, and both rudder pedals centered. The pilot reported feeling the airplane slide after 
touchdown, similar to being on an ice patch, but did not recall if the nose landing gear was on 
the runway before or at the time of the slide. He immediately applied right rudder and brake to 
maintain directional control. As the airplane started to veer to the left, he moved the power 
lever into beta to slow the airplane but was unable to keep the airplane on the runway surface. 
The airplane departed the left side of the runway and impacted a small berm, resulting in a 
nose landing gear collapse. The pilot subsequently walked the runway and did not see any ice 
but observed rubber transfer marks from the right main and nose landing gear tires.
The nose and main landing gear tire pressures at the time of the accident could not be 
confirmed although there was no evidence of sidewall scuffing or slippage of the nose landing 
tire or tube. The nose landing gear rake angle could not be determined due to damage, but the 
nose landing gear steering bungee appeared intact.
Although the collar of the nose landing gear trunnion was damaged, and the nose landing gear 
rake angle was set to 0.1° less than the minimum specified at the last annual inspection, 
neither of those conditions likely contributed to the on-ground loss of control. The reason for 
the runway excursion could not be determined based on the available evidence.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
