Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Trinity Bay, Texas
Accident Number:
DCA19MA086
Date & Time:
February 23, 2019, 12:39 Local 
Registration:
N1217A
Aircraft:
Boeing 767
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
3 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 121: Air carrier - Non-scheduled
Analysis 
The Safety Board's full report is available at 
http://www.ntsb.gov/investigations/AccidentReports/Pages/aviation.aspx. The Aircraft Accident Report 
number is NTSB/AAR-20/02. 
On February 23, 2019, at 1239 central standard time, Atlas Air Inc. flight 3591, a Boeing 767-375BCF, 
N1217A, was destroyed after it rapidly descended from an altitude of about 6,000 ft mean sea level and 
crashed into a shallow, muddy marsh area of Trinity Bay, Texas, about 41 miles east-southeast of 
George Bush Intercontinental/Houston Airport (IAH), Houston, Texas. The captain, first officer, and a 
nonrevenue pilot riding in the jumpseat died. Atlas operated the airplane as a Title 14 Code of Federal 
Regulations Part 121 domestic cargo flight for Amazon.com Services LLC, and an instrument flight 
rules flight plan was filed. The flight departed from Miami International Airport, Miami, Florida, about 
1033 (1133 eastern standard time) and was destined for IAH.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The inappropriate response by the first officer as the pilot flying to an inadvertent activation of the go-
around mode, which led to his spatial disorientation and nose-down control inputs that placed the 
airplane in a steep descent from which the crew did not recover. Contributing to the accident was the 
captain's failure to adequately monitor the airplane's flightpath and assume positive control of the 
airplane to effectively intervene. Also contributing were systemic deficiencies in the aviation industry's 
selection and performance measurement practices, which failed to address the first officer's aptitude-
related deficiencies and maladaptive stress response. Also contributing to the accident was the Federal 
Aviation Administration's failure to implement the pilot records database in a sufficiently robust and 
timely manner.
