Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Winter Haven, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA19FA106
Date & Time:
February 23, 2019, 12:43 Local 
Registration:
N65NE
Aircraft:
STOL Aircraft Corp UC-1
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Powerplant sys/comp malf/fail
Injuries:
1 Fatal, 1 Serious, 1 
Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The pilot and flight instructor were conducting an instructional flight in the amphibious multi-engine 
airplane. The instructor briefed the pilot before the flight that he would simulate an engine failure at 
some point after takeoff. The pilot stated that, after takeoff, about 200 to 300 ft above ground level, the 
instructor reduced power on the left engine, and the engine subsequently lost all power.
The flight instructor took control of the airplane and unsuccessfully attempted to restart the engine as the 
airplane continued to descend. The pilot stated that he was in the process of retracting the landing gear 
and did not have enough time to retract the flaps. The instructor was unable to establish a climb and 
upon realizing that the airplane would not reach the selected forced landing site, the instructor selected a 
closer landing site; however, as he turned the airplane left toward the site, the airplane likely slowed 
below its single-engine minimum control airspeed, the left wing dropped, and the airplane impacted a 
house. Examination of the wreckage revealed that the left propeller was in the feather position. There 
was no evidence of any preexisting mechanical malfunctions or anomalies that would have precluded 
normal operation of the airplane, and the left engine performed with no anomalies during a test run; 
therefore, the reason for the total loss of left engine power could not be determined.
The instructor's decision to simulate a failure of the airplane's critical engine at low altitude allowed 
little margin for securing the failed engine and configuring the airplane for optimum single-engine 
performance following the actual loss of engine power. His subsequent failure to maintain airspeed 
while maneuvering for a forced landing resulted in a loss of control.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
A total loss of left engine power for reasons that could not be determined, and the instructor's 
failure to maintain airspeed while maneuvering for a forced landing, which resulted in a loss of 
