Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Shreveport, Louisiana
Accident Number:
CEN19FA088
Date & Time:
February 28, 2019, 10:40 Local 
Registration:
N428CD
Aircraft:
Piper PA46
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The instrument-rated private pilot and passenger departed into instrument meteorological conditions 
with a 600-ft cloud ceiling in an airplane that was about 550 lbs over gross weight. Air traffic control 
data showed the airplane in a climbing left turn that continued beyond the assigned heading. After 
reaching 1,400 ft msl, the airplane continued turning left and its altitude and speed began to vary. The 
airplane continued in a left spiral, completing more than two full circles, then decelerated in a right turn 
and rapidly descended until impact with terrain. 
Examination of the flight control system revealed no evidence of mechanical malfunctions and 
downloaded engine data indicated normal engine operation. Downloaded data from the autopilot system 
revealed three in-flight error codes. The first error code, which likely occurred about 1 minute after 
takeoff, would have resulted in the autopilot, if it was engaged at the time, disengaging. The subsequent 
error codes likely occurred during the erratic flight profile, with the autopilot disengaged. 
Before the accident flight, the pilot had informed a mechanic, who is also a pilot, of intermittent issues 
with the autopilot system and that these issues were unresolved. The mechanic had flown with the 
accident pilot previously and assessed his instrument flying skills as weak. The flight instructor who 
provided initial flight training for the turbine engine transition stated the pilot's instrument flying 
proficiency was poor when he was hand flying the airplane. 
Toxicology testing revealed that the pilot had used marijuana, and his girlfriend stated the pilot would 
take a marijuana gummy before bedtime to sleep more soundly. However, given that no psychoactive 
compounds were found in blood specimens, it is unlikely that the pilot was impaired at the time of the 
accident.
The instrument conditions at the time of the accident, the airplane's erratic flightpath, and the pilot's 
reported lack of instrument proficiency when flying by hand support the likelihood that the pilot 
experienced spatial disorientation sometime after takeoff. In addition, given the reports of the 
intermittently malfunctioning autopilot that had not been fixed, it is likely the pilot experienced an 
