Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Louisburg, North Carolina
Accident Number:
ERA19FA113
Date & Time:
March 1, 2019, 19:21 Local 
Registration:
N26617
Aircraft:
Cessna 182
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
3 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot had planned to conduct a personal, instrument flight rules (IFR) flight in night 
instrument meteorological conditions (IMC). The clearance that the pilot received from air traffic 
control stipulated that after departure, the airplane was to turn about 50° left of the runway heading. 
Radar data showed that the airplane instead climbed along the departure runway heading for about 1 
minute, and witnesses described that the airplane entered IMC around 200 to 300 feet above the ground. 
When the airplane reached an altitude of about 860 ft above ground level (agl), it entered a right turn. 
The airplane reached the top of its climb about 930 ft agl, and continued a tightening right turn while 
descending at an estimated rate of about 6,000 feet per minute. The pilot did not contact air traffic 
control and radar contact was lost in the vicinity of the accident site. Postaccident examination of the 
airplane revealed no preimpact mechanical anomalies that would have precluded normal operation.
About 1 hour before the airplane departed, the pilot obtained an online weather briefing from a 
commercial vendor. The information in the briefing indicated that the airplane would be operating in 
IFR conditions with severe turbulence reported along the anticipated route of flight. The restricted 
visibility and low-level instrument meteorological conditions at night were conducive to the 
development of spatial disorientation. In addition, the airplane's flight track, which included altitude and 
directional changes that were inconsistent with the flight's clearance instructions, and the rapidly 
descending right turn, were consistent with the known effects of spatial disorientation. It is likely that 
the pilot developed spatial disorientation during the flight, which led to a loss of control.
A sedating, over-the-counter antihistamine (Cetirizine) was found in postaccident toxicology specimens 
taken from the pilot; however, the levels of the drug measured were three times below the therapeutic 
level. Additionally, ethanol was also detected in the some of the pilot's blood specimens but was not 
detected in the pilot's brain or muscle specimens. As a result, the ethanol detected was most likely from 
sources other than ingestion; thus, the pilot's use of cetirizine and the identified ethanol did not 
contribute to this accident.
