Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Fort Lauderdale, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA19FA112
Date & Time:
March 1, 2019, 11:41 Local 
Registration:
N145AB
Aircraft:
Piper PA25
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Collision with terr/obj (non-CFIT)
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Banner tow
Analysis 
The newly-hired banner tow pilot departed on his first banner-tow flight away from the training airport. 
After completing several circuits the pilot was flying on a southerly heading with an 8 knot easterly 
wind about 1/4 mile offshore, which was about half the distance he was trained to be offshore. The pilot 
initiated a right turn descended to 250 ft mean sea level and flew over a heavily congested area with tall 
buildings nearby. The airplane was seen flying about 250 ft above ground level over a heavily-congested 
area before it impacted the 16th and 17th floors of a 19-story building while in a right turn.
Although witnesses provided varying accounts of how the engine was operating near the end of the 
flight, a sound spectrum study conducted with video taken of the airplane just before the impact 
indicated that the engine was operating near its maximum available power at the time of impact. 
Postaccident examination of the airplane and engine revealed no evidence of preimpact failure or 
malfunction. The abnormal engine sounds reported by several witnesses were likely attributed to be 
from the lack of a muffler of the exhaust system. Given the lack of any mechanical malfunctions with 
the airplane, it was likely that the pilot did not adequately compensate for the wind conditions, which 
would have pushed the airplane inland during a right turn to reverse course.  
The operator reported that banner-tow flights were performed between 500 and 700 ft above mean sea 
level while offshore. At no time, except during takeoff or landing or unless authorized by air traffic 
control, were pilots expected to fly at altitudes less than 500 ft.
According to training records, the pilot had received 17 hours of banner tow flight training, He 
completed a .6-hour solo banner tow training flight in the airport vicinity 3 days before the accident. 
Probable Cause and Findings
