Page 1 of 12
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Fellsmere, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA19FA116
Date & Time:
March 5, 2019, 07:03 Local 
Registration:
N556PU
Aircraft:
Piper PA28
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of visual reference
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The student pilot was scheduled to complete a solo cross-country flight the day before the accident, and 
her flight instructor had provided the required endorsements for that flight; however, the flight was 
subsequently cancelled due to weather and was rescheduled for the following morning. When the pilot 
arrived on the airport the morning of the accident, she was released for the flight by the operations duty 
officer (DO), who was responsible for confirming that students had the proper endorsements for solo 
flight, even though her endorsements for the previous day's flight would have been no longer valid. The 
DO was also responsible for ensuring that weather conditions along a student's planned route of flight 
met the student’s prescribed limitations, and found that although the departure airport was reporting 
visual flight rules (VFR) conditions, the destination airports were reporting instrument flight rules (IFR) 
conditions. He stated that airports in the area tended to be IFR in the early-morning hours due to fog, 
then quickly improve to VFR after sunrise. He signed the pilot's flight risk assessment so that she could 
conduct her preflight inspection, but stressed to her that she needed to check the weather again before 
takeoff, and if conditions were still IFR, then the flight needed to be cancelled. 
Between the time the DO released the pilot for the flight and the time she subsequently departed just 
after sunrise, weather conditions at the departure airport deteriorated from VFR to low IFR, including a 
cloud ceiling around 400 to 500 ft above ground level. The airplane likely entered instrument 
meteorological conditions (IMC) immediately after takeoff. A review of radar data revealed that the 
pilot flew west-northwest of the airport and made a series of climbing and descending turns before the 
airplane impacted terrain around 6 minutes after takeoff about 7.3 miles northwest of the airport. 
Postaccident examination of the airplane and the engine revealed no discrepancies that would have 
precluded normal operation. The airplane's radar track after takeoff did not suggest an immediate loss of 
control upon entering IMC; however, the climbing and descending turns near the end of the data are 
consistent with the known effects of spatial disorientation. 
On the morning of the accident, four other students departed on solo flights. Three of the pilots departed 
just before the accident pilot. Two of these pilots stated that they checked the weather before their flights 
