Page 1 of 23
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Presque Isle, Maine
Accident Number:
DCA19FA089
Date & Time:
March 4, 2019, 11:29 Local 
Registration:
N14171
Aircraft:
Embraer EMB145
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Wrong surface or wrong airport
Injuries:
3 Minor, 28 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 121: Air carrier - Scheduled
Analysis 
The flight crew of an Embraer EMB145XR airplane was attempting to land on runway 1 at 
Presque Isle International Airport (PQI), Presque Isle, Maine. Snow was falling at the time. A 
Notice to Air Mission issued 2 hours 19 minutes before the accident indicated that runway 1 
was covered with 1/4 inch of dry snow, and the PQI maintenance foreman stated that the 
airport had been conducting snow removal operations to maintain that condition on the 
runway surface. 
Accident Sequence
The first instrument landing system (ILS) approach to runway 1 appeared to be proceeding 
normally until the first officer (the pilot flying) transitioned from instrument references inside 
the flight deck to outside references. During a postaccident interview, the first officer stated 
that he expected to see the runway at that time but instead saw “white on white” and a 
structure with an antenna that was part of the runway environment but not the runway itself. 
The captain (the pilot monitoring) stated that she saw a tower and called for a go-around. 
(Both flight crewmembers were most likely seeing the automated weather observing system 
wind sensor pole, which was located about 325 ft to the right of the runway 1 centerline and 
about 870 ft beyond the runway threshold, and the damage to the lightning arrester at the top 
of the wind sensor pole was likely due to contact with the accident airplane as it flew over the 
pole.) According to the cockpit voice recorder (CVR), after the go-around, the first officer asked 
the captain if she saw the runway lights during the approach. The captain responded that she 
saw the lights but that “it’s really white down there that’s the problem.” 
Airport personnel stated that snow plowing operations on the runway had finished about 10 
minutes before the first approach. The CVR recorded the flight crew’s discussion about turning 
on the pilot-controlled runway lights and sounds similar to microphone clicks before and after 
the discussion. However, the PQI maintenance foreman stated that, after the first approach, 
