Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Summersville, Missouri
Accident Number:
CEN19FA093
Date & Time:
March 5, 2019, 22:04 Local 
Registration:
N7369W
Aircraft:
Piper PA28
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel exhaustion
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was conducting a multileg cross-country flight and had last refueled the airplane with 26.98 
gallons of fuel about 375 miles from the accident location and about 450 miles from the destination 
airport. After departure from the last fuel stop, the pilot continued on the final leg of the flight in dark 
night conditions. Radar data consistent with the accident flight showed the airplane on course about 
5,000 ft mean sea level for about 4 hours. Just before the end of the radar track, the airplane began 
descending, then turned north and then southeast. The airplane impacted trees and terrain. The right 
wing separated and the fuselage was buckled. 
The wreckage of the airplane was found on wooded, hilly terrain the next morning by a motorist on a 
nearby road. The airplane impacted the trees and terrain in an attitude, consistent with a forced landing. 
The dark night conditions likely would have made it difficult for the pilot to see the trees during the 
landing. 
Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed that the two fuel tanks were not compromised; the left 
fuel tank was empty, and the right fuel tank contained only a minimal amount of fuel. Only a trace 
amount of fuel was found in the fuel lines and fuel pump. The damage to the propeller blades was 
consistent with little or no engine power at the time of impact. No preimpact mechanical malfunctions or 
failures with the airframe or engine were noted during the examination, although the emergency locator 
transmitter was found to be inoperable. 
The airplane averaged about 94 knots ground speed during the flight, and the entire flight from the fuel 
stop to the destination airport should have taken about 4 hours 48 minutes at that speed. Although the 
extent of the pilot’s preflight fuel planning and in-flight fuel monitoring could not be determined, with a 
fuel burn rate of 10 gallons per hour, there was not enough fuel to complete the planned flight with the 
required 45-minute night flight fuel reserve. Thus, the pilot’s preflight fuel planning was likely 
inadequate, and the engine lost power due to fuel exhaustion. 
