Page 1 of 11
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Longview, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN19FA094
Date & Time:
March 9, 2019, 10:47 Local 
Registration:
N922EJ
Aircraft:
Cessna T337
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Windshear or thunderstorm
Injuries:
4 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The non-instrument-rated private pilot and three passengers departed on a cross-country flight in a 
multi-engine airplane, even though the pilot did not hold multiengine rating. At the time of departure, 
the weather was reported to be clear. However, a line of thunderstorms and high winds were along the 
flight route. Radar data showed that the airplane initially flew eastward and that, after entering an area of 
convective weather, it turned westward, likely to avoid the area of weather. The airplane then flew 
northeast before resuming eastward flight and entering another area of weather. The airplane then 
entered a series of descending spiral turns until impact. About 10 hours after the accident, a witness 
noted wreckage near a roadway, and the airplane was located shortly thereafter.
No preimpact anomalies were found with the airframe or engines that would have precluded normal 
operation of the airplane. All separations were consistent with overload.
Parts of the right wing were located between 1 and 3 nautical miles from the main wreckage, indicating 
that an in-flight breakup of the airplane had occurred. Radar data showed that the airplane was flying at 
a groundspeed of between 160 and 190 kts before it entered the spiral shaped flight track. According to 
the manufacturer, the airplane's maximum maneuvering speed was about 135 kts. Thus, the in-flight 
breakup occurred because the airplane was operating above its maximum maneuvering speed, which 
exceeded the design load factor of the airplane.
Various aviation weather products indicated that the airplane entered areas of significant convective 
weather twice. Once the airplane entered the clouds and precipitation associated with thunderstorms, the 
airplane was also in areas that were favorable for icing conditions. No evidence indicated that the pilot 
received a weather briefing on the day before or the day of the accident. If he had received a weather 
briefing, he could have been aware of the severe thunderstorms predicted for the flight route.
Toxicology testing showed the pilot had taken a beta blocker used in the treatment of hypertension and 
certain arrhythmias.
