Page 1 of 12
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Madeira, Ohio
Accident Number:
ERA19FA124
Date & Time:
March 12, 2019, 15:16 Local 
Registration:
N400JM
Aircraft:
Piper PA31
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Aerial observation
Analysis 
The commercial pilot was conducting an aerial observation (surveying) flight in a piston engine-
equipped multiengine airplane. Several hours into the flight, the pilot advised air traffic control (ATC) 
that the airplane had a fuel problem and that he needed to return to the departure airport. When the 
airplane was 8 miles from the airport, and after passing several other airports, the pilot informed ATC 
that he was unsure if the airplane could reach the airport. The final minutes of radar data depicted the 
airplane in a descent and tracking toward a golf fairway as the airplane's groundspeed decreased to a 
speed near the single engine minimum control airspeed.
According to witnesses, they heard an engine sputter before making two loud "back-fire" sounds. One 
witness reported that, after the engine sputtered, the airplane "was on its left side flying crooked." 
Additional witnesses reported that the airplane turned to the left before it "nose-dived" into a 
neighborhood, impacting a tree and private residence before coming to rest in the backyard of the 
residence. A witness approached the wreckage immediately after the accident and observed a small 
flame rising from the area of the left engine. Video recorded on the witness' mobile phone several 
minutes later showed the airplane engulfed in flames.
Examination of the wreckage revealed no evidence of any preimpact mechanical malfunctions or 
failures of either engine. The fuel systems feeding both engines were damaged by impact forces but the 
examined components generally displayed that only trace amounts of fuel remained; with the exception 
of the left engine nacelle fuel tank. Given the extent of the fire damage to this area of the wreckage, and 
the witness report that the post impact fire originated in this area, it is likely that this tank contained fuel. 
By design, this fuel in this tank was not able to supply fuel directly to either engine, but instead relied on 
an electric pump to transfer fuel into the left main fuel tank. Fire damage precluded a detailed 
postaccident examination or functional testing of the left nacelle fuel transfer pump. Other pilots who 
flew similar airplanes for the operator, along with a review of maintenance records for those airplanes, 
revealed at least three instances of these pumps failing in the months surrounding the accident. The other 
pilots also reported varying methods of utilizing fuel and monitoring fuel transfers of fuel from the 
nacelle fuel tanks, since there was no direct indication of the quantity of fuel available in the tank. These 
