Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Lakeway, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN19FA099
Date & Time:
March 14, 2019, 13:40 Local 
Registration:
N8620B
Aircraft:
Cessna 172
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
1 Fatal, 1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The flight instructor and student pilot were conducting takeoffs and landings in the airport traffic 
pattern. A flight instructor and pilot on the ground reported that the accident airplane's engine was 
"cutting in and out" or "sputtering" following an aborted landing. Both witnesses reported that the 
airplane appeared to be maneuvering to return to the runway when the airplane entered a left turn, then 
descended in a steep, nose-down attitude consistent with an aerodynamic stall. The common traffic 
advisory frequency recording captured a transmission that indicated the flight instructor might attempt to 
return to the airport. The airplane impacted a tree and then a road sign in a mostly residential area. 
A postaccident examination of the airframe and engine revealed no mechanical malfunctions that would 
have precluded normal operation. The propeller exhibited signs of rotation and propeller strike marks 
were found on the ground at the accident site. Although the witness reports indicated a possible loss of 
power, the reason for the partial loss of engine power could not be determined based on the postaccident 
examination. After the partial loss of engine power, the flight instructor attempted a turn at low altitude, 
during which he failed to maintain proper airspeed and exceeded the airplane's critical angle of attack, 
which resulted in an aerodynamic stall and a loss of control at an altitude too low for recovery. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
A partial loss of engine power for reasons that could not be determined, and the flight 
instructor's exceedance of the airplane's critical angle of attack while maneuvering for a forced 
landing, which resulted in an aerodynamic stall and subsequent loss of control.
