Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Riverside, California
Accident Number:
WPR19FA096
Date & Time:
March 16, 2019, 11:49 Local 
Registration:
N800DC
Aircraft:
Beech 50
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot of the multiengine airplane departed on a personal flight. Shortly after takeoff, the 
pilot reported first an electrical problem, followed by control problems, before reporting a loss 
of right engine power. Despite the controller providing vectors back to the departure airport 
multiple times, the pilot continued off course as the airplane descended from about 3,400 ft 
mean sea level (msl) to about 1,200 ft msl at ground speeds between 85 and 89 knots before 
radar contact was lost. The airplane impacted the backyard of a residence. Witnesses saw the 
airplane flying low before it entered a spiraling, nose-low descent that continued until impact.
Examination of the airframe and both engines found no preimpact mechanical malfunctions 
that would have precluded normal operation. Flight control continuity was established from 
the cockpit to the flight control surfaces, and damage to the propeller blades from both engines 
was consistent with some power development at the time of impact. Engine control positions 
for the propellers and throttles were in the mid-range and the mixtures were in the rich 
position indicating that the pilot did not secure an inoperative engine for single-engine fight.
Based on the wreckage examination, the reason for the pilot’s reported electrical and control 
anomalies and the reported loss of right engine power could not be determined. The airplane’s 
gradual descent during the flight, followed by the nose-low spiral to ground impact, are 
consistent with the pilot not following single-engine procedures by adding power to maintain 
altitude and airspeed, securing the dead-engine, and maintaining a minimum safe single-
engine speed above 90 mph (78 knots).  
Probable Cause and Findings
