Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Cashiers, North Carolina
Accident Number:
ERA19FA130
Date & Time:
March 14, 2019, 18:15 Local 
Registration:
N6075Q
Aircraft:
Mooney M20C
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot obtained a weather briefing and filed his instrument flight rules flight plan the night 
before the cross-country flight. About 30 minutes after departure, an air traffic controller 
advised the pilot that he had overcorrected a turn. Shortly after, the pilot advised the controller 
that his attitude indicator was not functioning. The controller asked the pilot if he was in the 
clouds, and the pilot responded that he was in instrument meteorological conditions. The 
controller attempted to help the pilot get to clearer air, but the pilot continued to have 
difficulty controlling the airplane and maintaining an assigned course. Radar contact and radio 
contact were lost shortly thereafter.
The wreckage was located in mountainous terrain, and all major components and control 
surfaces were accounted for at the accident site. Various parts of the airplane were scattered 
through the treetops and the wreckage debris field. While the airplane’s attitude indicator was 
not recovered, the directional gyroscope and vacuum pump were, and they were each examined 
in detail.
Examination of the vacuum pump revealed that the shear coupling that connected the 
driveshaft between the engine accessory drive gear and the vacuum pump driveshaft assembly 
likely fractured before impact. The condition of the fractured shear coupling was consistent 
with the drive side rotating after fracture while in contact with the separated (and hence, 
stationary) driven side. A transverse fracture as observed through the shear coupling would 
have disengaged the two-piece driveshaft, which would not have allowed the pump to rotate. 
Additionally, all six of the vacuum pump’s vanes were intact but the rotor was fragmented into 
four relatively large pieces, and a relatively small area had fragmentated into smaller pieces. 
Given this information, the vacuum pump was likely not rotating at impact, as a greater degree 
of fragmentation would be expected if the pump were rotating. The interior surface vacuum 
pump housing displayed wear consistent with vane impact, dragging, and debris 
contamination within the housing at some point during the pump’s operational lifetime. One of 
