Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Granite Shoals, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN19LA101
Date & Time:
March 6, 2019, 13:00 Local 
Registration:
N6917F
Aircraft:
Cessna 150
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel starvation
Injuries:
1 Minor, 2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot reported that he last fueled the airplane about 5 months before the accident. Before the flight, 
the pilot conducted a preflight inspection and sumped both wing fuel tanks. The left fuel tank had some 
sediment present, but as he continued sumping the fuel became clear. The fuel in the right fuel tank ran 
clear. After engine start, the left tank fuel gauge indicated near empty, and the right fuel tank gauge 
indicated about 1/4 full. Subsequently, the pilot took off for a personal cross-country flight. After 
starting a right turn, and about 600 ft above ground level, the engine sputtered and lost power. The pilot 
then attempted to turn back to the airport but realized that the airplane was too low, so he executed a 
forced landing to a field with small trees, during which the left wing struck a tree, which resulted in  
substantial damage to the wing.
The pilot reported that, after the accident, he found more sediment in the left tank. He stated that he 
believed that the low fuel state and the sediment in the left tank may have starved the engine of fuel 
during the turn and that having more fuel onboard would have “probably been helpful.” However, it is 
more likely that, due to the low fuel state, when the pilot conducted the right turn, the fuel became 
unported, resulting in the loss of engine power due to fuel starvation.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's decision to takeoff with a limited amount of fuel onboard, which unported during a 
turn, resulting in fuel starvation and a subsequent loss of engine power.
