Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Plain City, Ohio
Accident Number:
CEN19FA100
Date & Time:
March 17, 2019, 17:45 Local 
Registration:
N424TW
Aircraft:
Cessna 421
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation
Analysis 
The pilot departed on a short cross-country flight in the twin-engine airplane. Instrument meteorological 
conditions (IMC) were present at the time. While en route at an altitude of 3,000 ft mean sea level, the 
pilot reported that the airplane was "picking up icing" and that he needed to "pick up speed." The 
controller then cleared the pilot to descend, then to climb, in order to exit the icing conditions; shortly 
thereafter, the controller issued a low altitude alert. The pilot indicated that he was climbing; radar and 
radio contact with the airplane were lost shortly thereafter. The airplane impacted a field about 7 miles 
short of the destination airport. Examination of the airplane was limited due to the fragmentation of the 
wreckage; however, no pre-impact anomalies were noted during the airframe and engine examinations. 
Extensive damage to the pitot static and deicing systems precluded functional testing of the two systems.
A review of data recorded from onboard avionics units indicated that, about the time the pilot reported to 
the controller that the airplane was accumulating ice, the airplane's indicated airspeed had begun to 
diverge from its ground speed as calculated by position data. However, several minutes later, the 
indicated airspeed was zero while the ground speed remained fairly constant. It is likely that this 
airspeed indication was the result of icing of the airplane's pitot probe. During the final 2 minutes of 
flight, the airplane was in a left turn and the pilot received several "SINK RATE" and "PULL UP PULL 
UP" annunciations as the airplane conducted a series of climbs and descents during which its ground 
speed (and likely, airspeed) reached and/or exceeded the airplane's maneuvering and maximum 
structural cruising speeds.
It is likely that the pilot became distracted by the erroneous airspeed indication due to icing of the pitot 
probe and subsequently lost control while maneuvering.
