Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Brevard, North Carolina
Accident Number:
ERA19LA131
Date & Time:
March 13, 2019, 18:10 Local 
Registration:
N8905X
Aircraft:
Cessna 182
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control on ground
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot performed a preflight inspection after the airplane had undergone maintenance and no 
anomalies were noted. He boarded the airplane, adjusted the seat, and then verified that it was locked in 
position. Shortly after beginning the takeoff roll, his seat slid backward. He was unable to reach the 
rudder pedals, and the airplane departed the left side of the runway, nosed over, and came to rest 
inverted. Examination revealed that the pilot seat’s left front roller housing was disengaged from the seat 
rail. The seat rail exhibited scoring on top of the rail, which likely occurred during the accident 
sequence. No scoring was noted on the sides of the rail. The roller housing was not splayed or damaged, 
indicating that it did not pull off the rail during the accident sequence. Although the seat rail holes were 
slightly worn, the pin did not exhibit any anomalies. 
The mechanic stated that he did not remove the pilot's seat to perform the maintenance that he 
completed before the accident flight; however, given the lack of side damage to the rails and the fact that 
the left front seat roller housing was not splayed, it is likely that the roller housing came off the rails 
during the maintenance and went unnoticed by both the mechanic and the pilot, which resulted in the 
seat sliding backward during takeoff.  
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The mechanic's failure to notice that the left front seat left front roller housing disengaged from 
the seat rail during recent maintenance, and the pilot's failure to detect the disengaged roller 
housing during the preflight inspection, which resulted in the seat sliding backward during 
takeoff and a subsequent loss of airplane directional control.
