Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Yukon, Oklahoma
Accident Number:
CEN19FA104
Date & Time:
March 18, 2019, 15:31 Local 
Registration:
N4MH
Aircraft:
Israel Aircraft Industries 1124
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The two commercial pilots were conducting a personal, cross-country flight. A video 
surveillance camera at the airport captured their airplane’s approach. Review of the video 
revealed that, as the airplane approached the approach end of the landing runway, it began to 
climb, rolled left, became inverted, and then impacted terrain. 
The left thrust reverser (T/R) was found open and unlatched at the accident site. An 
asymmetric deployment of the left T/R would have resulted in a left roll/yaw. The lack of an 
airworthy and operable cockpit voice recorder, which was required for the flight, precluded 
identifying which pilot was performing pilot flying duties, as well as other crew actions and 
background noises, that would have facilitated the investigation.
Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed that it was not equipped, nor was required to 
be equipped, with a nose landing gear (NLG) ground contact switch intended to preclude in-
flight operation of the thrust reverser (T/R). The left T/R door was found unlatched and open, 
and the right T/R door was found closed and latched. Further, electrical testing of the T/R left 
and right stow microswitches within the cockpit throttle quadrant revealed that the left stow 
microswitch did not operate within design specifications. Disassembly of the left and right stow 
microswitches revealed evidence of arc wear due to aging. Based on this information, it is likely 
that the airplane’s lack of an NLG ground contact switch and the age-related failure of the stow 
microswitches resulted in an asymmetric T/R deployment while on approach and a subsequent 
loss of airplane control. Also, there were additional T/R system components that were found to 
unairworthy that would have affected the control of the T/R system.
Operational testing of the T/R system could not be performed due to the damage the airplane 
incurred during the accident.
