Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Reno, Nevada
Accident Number:
WPR19LA098
Date & Time:
March 17, 2019, 08:10 Local 
Registration:
N5028P
Aircraft:
Piper PA 24
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control on ground
Injuries:
3 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
At the conclusion of an uneventful flight, the pilot verified that the landing gear were down and locked 
after he observed a green indication on the instrument panel. During landing, the airplane touched down 
normally on the main landing gear but veered left when the nose landing gear contacted the runway, and 
departed the runway edge. The left wing impacted an airport sign and the airplane spun to the left. As 
the airplane slid in gravel, the nose landing gear and right main landing gear collapsed, substantially 
damaging the airplane. 
The accident pilot purchased the airplane several months before the accident after the airplane had been 
parked mostly outside for 27 years. He flew the airplane about 15 hours before the accident flight. 
Postaccident examination of the nose landing gear revealed that the assembly was mostly intact except 
for the engine mount, which had failed where it supported the nose landing gear. The engine mount 
tubes displayed moderate to heavy corrosion deposits and wall thinning. The investigation could not 
determine the exact order in which the tubes failed; however, as the tubes were integral to the nose 
landing gear support, it is likely that the corrosion and wall thinning decreased the strength of the tubes 
and resulted in their failure when the nose landing gear was under load after touchdown. As the 
investigation did not find any preimpact anomalies with the nose landing gear steering system, the 
engine mount failure likely compromised the pilot's steering capabilities after touchdown before the 
collapse occurred. As the wear and corrosion on the tubes was mostly internal, it could not be 
determined whether the mechanic who most recently serviced the airplane would have recognized their 
condition.  
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
