Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Calhoun, Georgia
Accident Number:
ERA19FA134
Date & Time:
March 23, 2019, 15:35 Local 
Registration:
N257AR
Aircraft:
HOGAN Innovator
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Flight test
Analysis 
The pilot, who was also the owner/designer/builder of the experimental amateur-built airplane, had no 
recent flight experience and a medical certificate that had expired about 20 years before the accident 
flight. Despite assurances to his employees that he would not fly the airplane on what was its second test 
flight, video from inside the accident airplane showed that the pilot departed on the accident flight and 
the airplane immediately displayed rapid divergences in both the pitch and roll axis that were 
demonstrated on the airplane's first test flight. The airplane remained at treetop height throughout the 
upwind leg and into the crosswind turn and reached about 200 ft above ground level in level flight on 
the downwind leg. As the airplane accelerated, rapid pitch oscillations (phugoid) were exhibited. A 
handheld radio secured to the copilot's seat shoulder harness and the pilot himself were seen to "float" in 
the cockpit each time the airplane pitched nose down as the amplitude of the phugoid progressively 
increased, the duration of weightlessness displayed each time also increased. During one phugoid, an 
audible "oil pressure" warning was heard. The video ended abruptly as the pilot became unseated for 
about the fourth time and as the airplane appeared near treetop height. The airplane then impacted 
terrain.
The pilot had no experience in the accident airplane, which was the prototype for an airplane he intended 
to mass produce. A test pilot had completed the airplane's first flight in the traffic pattern. He described 
significant stability issues, which were captured by onboard video, and said the airplane departed 
controlled flight uncommanded about a dozen times. After the test pilot was able to safely land the 
airplane, it was disassembled, returned to the factory, modified according to the accident pilot's 
specifications based on captured data and the test pilot's observations, and then brought back to the 
departure airport for taxi testing the day before the accident.
According to employees of the company, the pilot was pressured by investors and missed deadlines, and 
was sleep-deprived and ill from a "severe" cold for which he was self-medicating. This pressure likely 
influenced the pilot's decision to test the prototype airplane himself despite his lack of experience and 
the stability issues demonstrated by the airplane on its initial test flight.
