Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Skwentna, Alaska
Accident Number:
ANC19FA038
Date & Time:
March 6, 2019, 17:30 Local 
Registration:
N7469A
Aircraft:
Cessna 172
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was conducting a cross-country flight through mountainous terrain from a hunting camp to his 
home airport. Forecast products and AIRMETs that were valid for the flight route indicated that 
mountain obscuration, marginal visual flight rules, instrument flight rules, and moderate icing conditions 
were expected. A friend of the pilot stated that snow showers began at the departure site shortly before 
the airplane departed. The radar track indicated that the pilot initially flew low through a mountain 
valley, about 4,000 ft mean sea level (msl) (2,500 ft above ground level), and then climbed to 6,900 ft 
msl while tracking east toward the destination. The last recorded radar data target indicated an altitude 
about 1,000 ft above the nearest mountain peak. When the airplane did not arrive at the destination, an 
ALNOT was issued and an extensive multi-agency search was conducted over the snow-covered 
mountain range; the search was terminated about 2 weeks later when the wreckage was not found. More 
than 4 months later, after the snow melted, the wreckage was discovered on a mountain ridge about 15 
miles east of the last radar return point.
A postaccident examination of the airframe and engine revealed no evidence of mechanical 
malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation. The damage to the airplane 
indicated that it impacted the ground in a nose-down, near-vertical attitude with a rear fuselage twist, 
which was consistent with an aerodynamic stall and spin. 
A review of satellite imagery, sounding data, and radar reflectivity over the accident site revealed that an 
overcast cloud layer with approximate cloud-top heights of 20,000 ft was present at the accident time. 
Moderate rime icing conditions and light precipitation were likely present. Weather camera images near 
the accident site indicated obscured mountaintops in broken to overcast cloud layers. Given the weather 
information, it is likely that structural icing accumulated during the flight, resulting in the pilot's 
inability to maintain airspeed and/or altitude, which resulted in an aerodynamic stall and spin.
