Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Loveland, Colorado
Accident Number:
CEN19LA107
Date & Time:
March 23, 2019, 10:43 Local 
Registration:
N7879N
Aircraft:
Cessna R172E
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Serious, 2 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
As the pilot approached the airport, another pilot heard him on the radio and advised him of "significant 
down drafts" on the approach to runway 15. The pilot acknowledged the transmission and continued his 
approach. When he turned onto the base leg, he encountered the "severe down-draft/microburst" the 
other pilot had mentioned. He applied full power in an attempt to climb out, but the airplane continued 
to descend striking a power-line and tree, and subsequently impacted terrain.
A review of the weather showed that a complex wind pattern existed over the area during the period 
with a wind shift occurring immediately after the time of the accident. No support for convective 
microburst activity was noted over the area; however, a large area of light intensity precipitation with 
some potential for some outflow was noted, which could have been resulted in the different winds 
occurring over the accident site during the period. In addition, the High Resolution Rapid Refresh model 
sounding and satellite imagery and pilot reports noted support for mountain wave activity over the area, 
which supported downslope winds and downdraft activity in the area at the time of the accident. The 
National Weather Service had AIRMET advisories for turbulence and IFR and mountain obscuration 
conditions over the area, but no advisory for low-level wind shear.
It is likely the pilot encountered shifting winds due to weather system in the area. With his reduced 
engine power on the base leg of the traffic pattern, the pilot most likely got into a downdraft that 
produced a sink rate that he could not recover from.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
An inflight&nbsp;loss of control on landing approach due to&nbsp;encountering a&nbsp;down-
draft, and the pilot's failure to take timely action to&nbsp;abandon the approach and perform a 
go-around.
