Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
McAlpin, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA19LA138
Date & Time:
March 26, 2019, 17:10 Local 
Registration:
N30271
Aircraft:
FISHER FLYING PRODUCTS Dakota 
Hawk
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Fuel related
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot allowed the engine to idle for 8 to 10 minutes while he waited for it to warm up, then 
completed the engine runup and taxied the airplane for takeoff. He reported that the takeoff run was 
longer than usual, and because he was preoccupied watching the airspeed, he passed his previously 
established takeoff abort point. Upon reaching rotation speed, he determined that it was no longer safe to 
abort the takeoff and continued, although the engine did not seem to be producing normal power. 
Shortly after clearing trees at the end of the runway, "the left wing dropped," and he lowered the nose to 
prevent the airplane from stalling. When he determined that he had insufficient altitude to recover, he 
landed straight ahead in a young pine tree plantation. He managed to safely egress before a postimpact 
fire destroyed the airplane.
Postaccident examination of the engine revealed no evidence of any preimpact mechanical malfunctions 
or failures that would have precluded normal operation. The atmospheric conditions at the time of the 
accident were conducive to the formation of serious carburetor icing at low engine power settings. It is 
likely that carburetor ice developed during the time the engine was operating at idle power before 
takeoff, which resulted in a partial loss of engine power during the takeoff and initial climb.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to use carburetor heat while operating at idle power in atmospheric 
conditions conducive to the formation of carburetor ice, which resulted in a partial loss of 
engine power during takeoff.
