Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Sevierville, Tennessee
Accident Number:
ERA19LA139
Date & Time:
March 27, 2019, 16:30 Local 
Registration:
N22GM
Aircraft:
MARLOW Bearhawk
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot reported that the experimental, amateur-built airplane experienced a total loss of engine power 
while maneuvering at an altitude of 2,500 ft mean sea level. He activated the electronic fuel 
injection/ignition system emergency power switch and attempted to restart the engine, but was 
unsuccessful. He performed a forced landing to a field, during which the airplane sustained substantial 
damage to the left wing and fuselage. A review of engine and flight data recorded by the electronic 
flight information system revealed a sudden increase (about 240°F over 1 second) in exhaust gas 
temperature (EGT) in the No. 1 cylinder, consistent with abnormal combustion immediately preceded 
the loss of engine power. Shortly thereafter, the engine rpm began to decrease, and the electrical system 
load increased by about 8 amps, then decreased by about 17 amps. The engine rpm continued to 
decrease for the next 2.5 minutes, consistent with a windmilling propeller, before it reached 900 rpm and 
then decreased to 0 rpm just prior to the landing. The electronic ignition circuit breaker was found 
activated. The reason for the abnormal combustion and the activation of the electronic ignition circuit 
breaker which resulted in a total loss of engine power could not be determined based on the available 
information. 
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
Abnormal combustion in the No. 1 cylinder for reasons that could not be determined based on the 
available evidence, followed by the activation of the ignition system circuit breaker, which resulted in a 
total loss of engine power.
