Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Newton, Kansas
Accident Number:
CEN19LA111
Date & Time:
March 26, 2019, 17:30 Local 
Registration:
N76268
Aircraft:
Cessna 140
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot reported that no engine issues were detected during the run up. He stated that, during the 
takeoff, the climbout engine power was "good." On the turn to downwind, the pilot noticed a slight loss 
of engine power. He checked the throttle position and continued the downwind leg. The pilot considered 
landing on the crosswind runway but felt he had engine power to make a short 180° approach to the 
departure runway. During the turn to final, the engine had an additional power drop, "clattered" about 3-
4 seconds, and subsequently stopped. The pilot landed straight ahead in a field, where the airplane nosed 
over and sustained substantial damage.
A disassembly of the engine revealed that the camshaft was fractured in the area abeam the No.1 
cylinder. The No. 1 connecting rod end was separated from its crankshaft journal, and the rod end 
exhibited discoloration consistent with lubrication distress. The liberated sections of connecting rod 
bearing material were found in the oil sump an exhibited discoloration consistent with lubrication 
distress. The oil transfer tube orifice for the No. 1 connecting rod bearing was smeared over with 
migrated connecting rod journal material. The migrated and smeared metal was drilled through to see if 
any debris was present; only metallic particles were present that were attracted by a magnet. No other 
blockages were found within the oil system. Scoring consistent with hard particle passage was observed 
within the oil pump housing. The oil filter was cut open and had one spot of dark-colored debris; no 
other debris found within the filter pleats. The oil suction pickup tube was disassembled and did not 
contain any debris.
The No. 1 connecting rod end separation is consistent with oil starvation at the rod end.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
