Page 1 of 12
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Farmington, New Mexico
Accident Number:
WPR19FA103
Date & Time:
March 31, 2019, 14:39 Local 
Registration:
N173CT
Aircraft:
Cirrus SR22
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
VFR encounter with IMC
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The noninstrument-rated pilot departed on a visual flight rules (VFR) cross-country flight.  
About 25 minutes after takeoff, the airplane reached its highest altitude of 17,300 ft mean sea 
level (msl) and was approaching a line of precipitation and thunderstorms. About 20 minutes 
later, the airplane entered a descent at a rate of about 1,000 ft per minute. The airplane then 
leveled off at an altitude of about 8,575 ft msl (about 3,000 ft above ground level), about 1,000 
ft below the predicted cloud base, and a short time later, the airplane transitioned to a right 
descending turn that continued until ground contact, reaching a descent rate of about 5,175 ft 
per minute. The debris field and fragmentation of the airplane was consistent with a high-
speed, right-wing-low impact. Examination of the wreckage did not reveal any anomalies with 
the airframe or engine that would have precluded normal operation, and there was no evidence 
of an inflight breakup. The airplane’s airframe parachute system was not deployed.
Analysis of weather information indicated that the airplane likely encountered a line of 
developing and expanding rain showers, with updraft and downdraft conditions, precipitation, 
and reduced visibility as the pilot likely descended to fly under the cloud bases. Due to the 
developing and expanding rain shower line, outflow boundaries and low-level wind shear 
conditions were likely present in the area at the accident time. 
A convective SIGMET as well as AIRMETs for instrument flight rules conditions, mountain 
obscuration, and moderate icing were valid for the route of flight and in the area of the accident 
site at the accident time. When activating his flight plan, the pilot indicated to the weather 
briefer that he was aware of the AIRMETs; however, whether he was aware of the SIGMET was 
not determined based on the available information. 
Although the pilot did not receive an official weather briefing, records suggest that he 
downloaded weather imagery three days before the flight. He had an active subscription to a 
commercial satellite weather service for the airplane, which was also equipped with multiple 
