Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Palatka, Florida
Accident Number:
ERA19LA141
Date & Time:
March 30, 2019, 16:59 Local 
Registration:
N81KK
Aircraft:
Flight Design CTLS
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
2 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot reported that the cross-country flight was uneventful until he was approaching the destination 
airport from the north, when the engine lost total power. He was unable to restart the engine and 
prepared for a forced landing in a clearing. He deployed the airplane’s Ballistic Recovery System 
(BRS); the rocket fired, but the parachute remained in its container. During the forced landing, the 
airplane was substantial damage and the pilot and passenger were seriously injured.
The pilot reported that he began the flight with about 13.5 gallons of fuel on board, which was consistent 
with the recorded fuel quantity remaining indicated by the airplane’s engine monitoring system (EMS); 
however, this value was not directly measured and depended on pilot input. There was no odor of fuel or 
evidence of fuel leaks at the crash site. The fuel tanks were not compromised during the impact and no 
fuel was found in the fuel tanks during recovery.
The engine and fuel system were examined after the accident and a test run was performed. The engine 
ran normally on the airframe and no evidence of a preexisting mechanical failure or anomaly was found. 
Examination of the EMS data revealed that, during the power loss, fuel flow increased to more than 
twice the normal rate. According to the engine manufacturer, air introduced into the fuel system due to 
fuel exhaustion can result in a fuel flow increase due to the impeller on the fuel flow transducer speeding 
up. Given this information, it is likely that the initial fuel-on-board indications were incorrect (as they 
were not indications, but calculations based on pilot input) and that the loss of engine power was the 
result of fuel exhaustion.
An examination of the BRS revealed numerous conditions that were indicative of improper or 
nonexistent maintenance and inspections. These conditions, among others, included the following. The 
S-folded harnesses were improperly secured inside the egress panel. These harnesses improperly 
protruded into and blocked the egress opening. They also protruded into and blocked the opening of the 
parachute canister. During the attempted BRS deployment, a portion of the egress panel remained 
attached to the airframe due to improper bonding. This condition blocked the parachute container, 
