Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Spring, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN19LA113
Date & Time:
March 28, 2019, 15:45 Local 
Registration:
N494JB
Aircraft:
Cessna 172
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control on ground
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was taxiing the airplane to the runway to depart on a personal flight when the 
airplane veered to the right and the right main landing gear descended into a drainage ditch. 
The pilot and the passenger were not injured. The right horizontal stabilizer and elevator were 
substantially damaged.
In a postaccident statement, the pilot reported no anomalies with the wheel brake system 
before she began taxiing the airplane. She also reported that the tailwind during taxi caused a 
high groundspeed but that the airplane was “uncontrollable” via the rudder and brakes. 
The airplane’s pilot operating handbook states that the groundspeed and use of brakes should 
be held to a minimum while taxiing, directional control should be maintained with the 
steerable nosewheel and the rudder, and the proper positioning of the ailerons and elevator for 
wind direction is required to maintain directional control and balance. Additionally, according 
to the FAA’s Airplane Flying Handbook, a pilot must maintain a safe taxiing speed to ensure 
directional control and must have the ability to recognize any potential hazards in time to avoid 
them and to stop or turn where and when desired without undue reliance on the wheel brakes.
Postaccident examination and testing revealed no anomalies with the airplane’s wheel brake 
system or the steerable nosewheel. The wind at the airport about the time of the accident was 
from 140° at 13 knots gusting to 21 knots.  Thus, the pilot likely allowed the airplane to 
accelerate to an unsafe groundspeed during taxi, resulting in a loss of directional control.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
