Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Copalis, Washington
Accident Number:
WPR19LA105
Date & Time:
March 30, 2019, 12:56 Local 
Registration:
N215T
Aircraft:
Piper PA18
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Collision during takeoff/land
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot, who was the owner of the airplane, was conducting a personal cross-country flight to an 
airport that was a designated section of a sandy ocean beach. Most of the flight was conducted at an 
altitude of about 2,300 ft, and most of the underlying enroute terrain was inhospitable for landing. The 
pilot reported that, about 90 minutes into the flight, and 5 minutes after conducting a series of low 
altitude maneuvers and climbing to about 1,000 ft above the ground, the engine began running roughly 
and losing power. He said that he activated the carburetor heat, but that did not improve the situation, 
and he landed the airplane on a logging road in a forest clearing, during which the airplane impacted 
stumps and debris, resulting in substantial damage. 
Examination revealed that the airplane was destroyed by fire. There was no evidence of any pre-impact 
failures or malfunctions. Fire and impact damage prevented determination of the pre-accident condition 
or functionality of any of the engine components, or of the engine itself. Temperature and dew point 
values from an airport located about 9.5 miles from the accident site on a graph of carburetor icing 
potential indicated the potential for serious icing at cruise power. 
The altitude, speed, and ground track traces of the approach to the logging road, which included level-
offs and speed increases, were consistent with a normal traffic pattern flown with an engine developing 
sufficient power for the entirety of the approach. The fact that both propeller blades were damaged, as 
well as their damage patterns, also indicated that the engine was developing power.
Based on the available information, the circumstances under which the pilot conducted the off-airport 
landing could not be determined. 
