Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Edgefield, South Carolina
Accident Number:
ERA19LA143
Date & Time:
April 4, 2019, 12:15 Local 
Registration:
N7622M
Aircraft:
Cessna 175
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The airplane had not been flown for about 6 years before being purchased about a week before 
the accident. A stuck exhaust valve was noted as part of an inspection for purchase. The pilot, 
who was also an airframe and engine mechanic, performed an annual inspection on the 
airplane the day before the accident. The pilot did not use a checklist and relied on memory 
during the inspection. The pilot noted a stuck exhaust valve on the No. 2 cylinder. Instead of 
removing the cylinder and conducting an inspection, as suggested by the engine manufacturer, 
the pilot staked the valve to correct the condition. The valve stuck again during a predeparture 
check on the day of the accident. The pilot staked the valve again and performed several 
additional run-ups without noting anymore problems with the valve. An additional 
predeparture engine run-up was performed prior to the accident flight. The pilot departed and 
reported the engine began running rough after about 20 minutes of level flight. He turned 
toward a nearby airport but the engine subsequently lost all power. Attempts to restart the 
engine were unsuccessful so the pilot performed a forced landing to a field. The left wing struck 
a pole during landing as the pilot maneuvered to avoid livestock. 
A postaccident engine run was conducted with the engine installed in the airplane. The engine 
run was limited to 1,500 rpm due to safety concerns. A noticeable “skip” was noted during the 
engine run. The engine subsequently ran rough and then lost power when the left magneto was 
selected but continued to run when the right magneto was selected. Timing of the left magneto 
could not be performed due to lack of available tools, and the reason the engine lost power 
when the left magneto was selected was not determined. Additional examination of the engine 
found that the exhaust valve guide of one cylinder was pulled from the cylinder and seized to 
the valve stem. Additionally, the pushrod socket of a second cylinder was separated, which also 
likely occurred because of a stuck valve. The accident would have likely been mitigated had the 
pilot/mechanic properly addressed the recurring sticking exhaust valve issue. Although the 
