Page 1 of 12
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
New York, New York
Accident Number:
DCA19LA134
Date & Time:
April 10, 2019, 20:40 Local 
Registration:
N114NN
Aircraft:
Airbus A321
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Abnormal runway contact
Injuries:
110 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 121: Air carrier - Scheduled
Analysis 
This accident occurred when an American Airlines Airbus A321 entered a left roll during 
takeoff from runway 31L at John F. Kennedy International Airport. The wind at the time 
resulted in a 14- to 17-knot crosswind from the right, which was below the company’s 35-knot 
crosswind limitation. The initial takeoff roll proceeded normally, with the captain (the pilot 
flying) applying left rudder pedal to counter the right crosswind. The captain stated that he 
kept the airplane near the runway centerline and that “everything was ok” when the airplane 
reached 80 knots. When the airplane reached the rotation speed of 156 knots while still on the 
ground, the captain made a large left rudder pedal input, from 8° to 25°, during a 1.5-second 
timeframe. In response to this large rudder pedal input, the airplane’s heading deviated to the 
left, and its lateral acceleration increased to a maximum of 0.32 G.
During a postaccident interview, the captain stated the airplane made a “significant” turn to 
the left. The captain also stated that he was “looking at the runway edge” and knew he had to 
get the airplane into the air. Digital flight data recorder (DFDR) data showed that the sidestick 
was pulled to its full nose-up position and a right sidestick position. During the aft sidestick 
and right sidestick application to rotate the airplane, the rudder remained close to its full-left 
deflection for 3 seconds. As the nose of the airplane lifted off the ground, the airplane began to 
roll to the left, and the left roll rate accelerated as the main landing gear lifted off the ground, 
reaching a maximum of 37° left wing down as the captain moved the rudder and sidestick to 
full right and to full aft. These movements arrested the left roll and allowed the airplane to 
continue to lift off.  
The large left roll angle immediately after liftoff resulted in the left wingtip striking the ground 
and a runway distance marker, part of which remained imbedded in the wingtip. Airbus 
engineering simulations performed as part of this investigation demonstrated that the several 
seconds of near-maximum left rudder generated a rolling moment after the gear had left the 
ground to impart the left roll rate that the DFDR recorded. No airplane flight control 
