Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Lake, Mississippi
Accident Number:
CEN19FA120
Date & Time:
April 13, 2019, 00:15 Local 
Registration:
N4890L
Aircraft:
Piper PA28
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The noninstrument-rated pilot was operating the airplane on a cross-country flight in dark night 
instrument meteorological conditions. There was no record of the pilot obtaining a weather briefing, 
filing a flight plan, or making any radio transmissions. Primary radar data and weather data showed the 
airplane entering an area of thunderstorms and convective activity. The radar track ended when the 
airplane was about 8,400 ft mean sea level. A resident near the accident area heard the sound of an 
airplane and a loud “bang” and noted strong wind, rain, and thunderstorms at the time. 
Examination of the main wreckage revealed that the airplane impacted the ground in a high-speed, near-
vertical condition, and the accident site encompassed a linear area about 1,500 ft long. The main 
wreckage was destroyed by impact forces, and the engine and propeller assembly were buried in a 4-ft-
deep crater. The left aileron, outboard sections of the left and right wings, and the left and right 
horizontal stabilizers were located about 1,500, 1,000, and 900 ft from the main wreckage, respectively. 
Fractured areas of the left and right wings and the horizontal stabilizers were consistent with overload 
separation before ground impact. The debris path and separated sections of the wings and empennage 
were consistent with an in-flight breakup. Examinations of the engine and airframe did not reveal 
evidence of any pre-existing anomalies that would have precluded normal operation. Flight control 
continuity was established, and the propeller blades showed evidence of rotation at impact. 
The pilot did not have an instrument rating, and his instrument proficiency could not be verified. Based 
on toxicological and operational evidence, it is likely that impairing effects from the pilot’s use of 
methamphetamine contributed to the accident. Whether effects    from his use of buprenorphine also 
contributed to the accident cannot be determined.
Probable Cause and Findings
