Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
New York, New York
Accident Number:
ERA19LA150
Date & Time:
April 13, 2019, 22:15 Local 
Registration:
N5296H
Aircraft:
Cessna 172
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel exhaustion
Injuries:
3 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot filed an instrument flight rules flight plan with an estimated en route time of 3.5 hours; 
however, air traffic control revised his route during the flight, which added an additional 40 to 50 
minutes to the total flight time. Upon arrival at the destination airport in night instrument meteorological 
conditions, the pilot attempted three precision instrument approaches before diverting to a larger airport, 
where he performed two additional approaches, both of which he terminated and conducted missed 
approaches due to the weather conditions. During the third approach to the larger airport, the airplane's 
fuel supply was exhausted, and the engine lost all power. The pilot pitched the airplane for its best glide 
speed; about 100 ft above the ground, he saw streetlights and attempted to land on the road below. The 
airplane impacted a building and power lines and came to rest suspended in the power lines a few feet 
above the ground.
Postaccident examination revealed that the fuel tanks were void of fuel. Examination of the airframe, 
engine, and the vacuum system found no evidence of any preimpact mechanical malfunctions or failures 
that would have precluded normal operation. The pilot had accrued about 80 flight hours of simulated 
instrument flight experience, and 1 hour of flight experience in actual instrument meteorological 
conditions with a flight instructor. The accident flight was his first acting as a pilot-in-command while in 
instrument meteorological conditions.
Weather forecasts for the destination airport and surrounding airports issued before the flight departed 
projected low instrument flight rules (IFR) conditions at the estimated time of arrival. However, the pilot 
did not obtain a formal weather briefing before the accident flight. The pilot reported that he was aware 
of the bad weather before takeoff but decided to complete the flight because one of the passengers had to 
make an international trip the following day. It is likely that this external pressure contributed to the 
pilot's decision to attempt the accident flight regardless of the weather conditions. 
