Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Nome, Alaska
Accident Number:
ANC19TA017
Date & Time:
April 15, 2019, 09:00 Local 
Registration:
N5163E
Aircraft:
Cessna A185
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Controlled flight into terr/obj (CFIT)
Injuries:
1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Public aircraft
Analysis 
The pilot was conducting a visual flight rules (VFR) cross-country flight in marginal VFR 
conditions. While en route to his destination, he decided to maneuver off the intended course 
to surveil a mountainous area in the national park. While maneuvering in that area, he 
observed deteriorating weather. While he was looking down at the GPS display to confirm that 
he was navigating properly, the airplane entered instrument meteorological conditions (IMC). 
The pilot stated that he looked up and “probably” experienced spatial disorientation, so he 
commenced an instrument scan, confirmed that the wings were level, and started a right 180° 
turn to return to visual conditions. A review of GPS data indicated that the airplane was 
established on a relatively steady course about 600 ft above ground level, heading directly into 
higher terrain, then turned right for 50° and descended at a rate of about 520 ft per minute 
into terrain. The wreckage came to rest on the slope of a snow-covered ridge and was separated 
into sections along a 120-ft path, with signatures indicative of high-speed impact in a slight 
left-wing-low attitude. The fuselage, wings, and empennage sustained substantial damage.
The weather forecast for the area indicated marginal VFR conditions, which was within the 
agency’s weather minimums. The pilot reported that while maneuvering to the ridgeline area, 
he noted “low” and “thick” clouds but felt comfortable because he was flying along the ridgeline 
that he recognized.
A review of the pilot’s training records indicated that he was certified by his agency’s 
department for VFR-only flights and had no recent instrument flight experience. The agency 
had no instrument training or currency for reciprocating airplane pilots who were assigned to 
VFR flights. The pilot stated that he did receive simulated instrument training and was taught 
to turn back 180° for unintentional flight into IMC, although instrument training and 
inadvertent IMC were not documented on the annual check flight.
