Page 1 of 12
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Fullerton, California
Accident Number:
WPR19FA115
Date & Time:
April 18, 2019, 19:51 Local 
Registration:
N65MY
Aircraft:
Beech 60
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Ground handling event
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot began the takeoff roll in visual meteorological conditions. The airplane was airborne 
about 1,300 ft down the runway, which was about 75% of the normal ground roll distance for 
the airplane’s weight and the takeoff environment. About 2 seconds after rotation, the airplane 
rolled left. Three seconds later, the airplane had reached an altitude of about 80 ft above 
ground level and was in a 90° left bank. The nose then dropped as the airplane rolled inverted 
and struck the ground in a right-wing-low, nose-down attitude. The airplane was destroyed.
Postaccident examination did not reveal any anomalies with the airframe or engines that would 
have precluded normal operation. The landing gear, flap, and trim positions were appropriate 
for takeoff and flight control continuity was confirmed. The symmetry of damage between both 
propeller assemblies indicated that both engines were producing equal and high amounts of 
power at impact.
The autopsy revealed no natural disease was present that could pose a significant hazard to 
flight safety.
Review of surveillance video footage from before the accident revealed that the elevator was in 
the almost full nose-up (or trailing edge up) position during the taxi and the beginning of the 
takeoff roll. Surveillance footage also showed that the pilot did not perform a preflight 
inspection of the airplane or control check before the accident flight.
According to the pilot’s friend who was also in the hangar, as the accident pilot was pushing the 
airplane back into his hangar on the night before the accident, he manipulated and locked the 
elevator in the trailing edge up position to clear an obstacle in the hangar. However, no 
evidence of an installed elevator control lock was found in the cabin after the accident. 
