Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
St. Cloud, Minnesota
Accident Number:
CEN19LA125
Date & Time:
April 20, 2019, 09:46 Local 
Registration:
N40956
Aircraft:
Piper PA-28R-200
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Runway excursion
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The private pilot reported that the airplane operated normally during the personal flight. He stated that 
before touchdown at the destination airport, he applied left rudder and had the right wing down into the 
wind to counter the crosswinds and maintain the center line of the runway. At touchdown, he held the 
control yoke to the right and was applying the brakes; however, the airplane veered left and exited the 
runway. The airplane traveled about 50 ft into the grass, and the right main landing gear collapsed; the 
right wing struck the ground and sustained substantial damage. Postaccident examination confirmed 
flight control continuity. The airplane was equipped with an engine monitoring system, and data 
indicated that the engine and propeller operated normally during the flight. The pilot reported no 
preaccident mechanical malfunctions or failures with the airplane that would have precluded normal 
operation. Weather at the destination airport about 1 hour before the accident was wind from 180° at 13 
knots gusting to 20 knots; the automated weather report that the pilot received en route was similar. The 
crosswind component was within the maximum demonstrated crosswind component for this airplane; 
however, the pilot stated, "Looking back, I should have never gone up with crosswinds that high, with 
little to no practice in crosswinds logged in the last 30, 60, [or] 90 days." Thus, it is likely that the pilot 
failed to maintain directional control during landing in crosswind conditions.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot's failure to maintain directional control during a crosswind landing. Contributing to the 
accident was the pilot's decision to land in crosswind conditions given his lack of recent experience in 
those conditions. 
