Page 1 of 7
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Cleveland, North Carolina
Accident Number:
ERA19FA154
Date & Time:
April 22, 2019, 09:15 Local 
Registration:
N625J
Aircraft:
Wheeler EXPRESS SERIES 2000
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
1 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot departed in the experimental amateur-built airplane in visual meteorological conditions for a 
flight to another airport for an avionics upgrade. Shortly after departure, a witness reported that he heard 
an airplane’s engine and that, when he saw the airplane it quickly rolled inverted. Another witness 
located close to the accident site reported that he saw the airplane heading straight down. He heard loud 
engine noises that changed pitch, and then the airplane fell below a tree line and did not reappear. The 
disposition of the wreckage was consistent with the airplane impacting terrain with significant energy 
and at a steep vertical angle. All the airplane’s major components were accounted for at the accident site 
and examination of the airframe and engine revealed no evidence of any preaccident mechanical 
malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation. 
The airplane’s manual contained a statement warning against performing aerobatics in the airplane, and 
specifically warned that the airplane would rapidly build speed when in a nose down attitude. Based on 
the witness statements that describe maneuvers (the airplane rolling inverted) and a steep descent toward 
the ground prior to the accident, it is possible that the pilot was maneuvering the airplane before losing 
control and impacting the ground in a rapid descent. 
Based on the results of postmortem toxicological testing, the pilot was taking the sedating antihistamine 
diphenhydramine. This over the counter drug carries the warning that use may impair mental and/or 
physical ability required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks. Compared to other  
antihistamines, diphenhydramine causes marked sedation. However, no blood was available for testing, 
and the investigation was unable to determine if the pilot had impairing levels of the potentially 
impairing medication diphenhydramine in his body around the time of the accident. It is likely that some 
or all of the ethanol identified by the toxicological testing was from sources other than ingestion. 
