Page 1 of 19
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Kerrville, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN19FA124
Date & Time:
April 22, 2019, 08:51 Local 
Registration:
N501CE
Aircraft:
Beech 58
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of control in flight
Injuries:
6 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation
Analysis 
The pilot was conducting an instrument flight rules (IFR) flight in a twin-engine airplane with five 
passengers. During a GPS approach to the destination airport, both engines lost total power within 10 
seconds of each other; the left engine regained near full power about 40 seconds later, which it 
maintained until the end of recorded data. As the pilot continued the approach, he did not ensure the 
flaps were up or feather the propeller of the inoperative right engine, which was contrary to the airplane 
manufacturer's emergency procedures guidance. 
As the airplane descended with the right engine inoperative below the cloud ceiling to about 500 ft agl, 
its flightpath leveled and airspeed decreased below the minimum controllable airspeed (Vmc). The 
airplane's continued flight profile below Vmc with the unfeathered propeller of the inoperative right 
engine, the left engine near full power, and the airplane's aft center of gravity resulted in a right-
turning spin and ground impact.
The pilot's filed flight plan indicated a minimum fuel load required of 58 gallons, although this did not 
account for the instrument approach and alternate airports. However, the pilot's flight planning log 
indicated only 50 or 54 gallons of fuel onboard. Thus, based solely on the pilot's logs, there was 
insufficient fuel onboard the airplane to embark on the flight. Because the airplane was beyond its 
maximum gross weight with just 50 gallons of fuel onboard, it is likely that the pilot did not want to add 
additional fuel. Thus, the pilot's decision to depart on the accident flight without adequate fuel onboard 
showed poor judgement.  
Although the pilot departed without an adequate fuel reserve for the IFR flight, an actual fuel load of 50 
or 54 gallons would have been sufficient to reach the destination airport (the airplane burned about 42 
gallons just before the crash site about 6 miles from the airport). However, when the airplane was fueled 
at the pilot's request 8 days (five flights) before the accident flight, it was not completely filled. Because 
the pilot was not present for the fueling and did not crosscheck the fuel receipt with his fuel-planning 
logs, he did not recognize that the error meant he had less than 50 gallons of fuel onboard before 
