Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Henderson, Kentucky
Accident Number:
ERA19FA155
Date & Time:
April 22, 2019, 22:03 Local 
Registration:
N9693E
Aircraft:
Bellanca 1730
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel exhaustion
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The student pilot and passenger had taken the airplane without permission from the owner on a night 
cross-country flight with an unknown destination. About 4 hours after departure, the airplane flew an 
approach to a closed airport but likely did not land. The airplane then climbed and flew about 10 miles 
away from the airport before returning; the last radar data indicated an altitude of about 700 ft above the 
ground about 1/2 mile south of the runway consistent with aa left downwind leg in the airport traffic 
pattern. The airplane impacted terrain in a near vertical nose-down attitude near midfield about 200 ft 
south of the runway. There were no ground scars leading up to the main wreckage, which was consistent 
with little or no forward airspeed and a loss of control. About 3-4 gallons of fuel were recovered from 
the right wing; however, a placard on the filler neck indicated 4 gallons of fuel were unusable. A trace 
amount of fuel was found in the left wing, and no fuel was found in the fuselage auxiliary tank. A post-
accident examination of the airframe and engine revealed no preimpact anomalies that would have 
precluded normal operation; however, a lack of rotational scoring on the propeller blades was noted. It is 
likely that the airplane's engine lost power due to fuel exhaustion as the airplane was in the airport traffic 
pattern the second time, and the pilot failed to maintain sufficient airspeed, which resulted in an 
aerodynamic stall and impact with terrain.
The student pilot had logged 24 hours of total flight experience, 23 of which was dual instruction. He 
had logged 3 hours of dual cross-country experience, of which 1.4 hours were in the accident airplane 
earlier on the day of the accident. He had no other experience in an airplane of the same make/model. 
He had logged a total of 4 hours at night in a different airplane make/model. Thus, it is likely that the 
pilot had little experience in fuel planning and management, night operations, and emergency 
procedures in the accident airplane make/model to help him deal with the loss of engine power on 
approach to the airport at night.
Toxicology performed on the student pilot was positive for methamphetamine, cocaine, and their 
metabolites. Although the test results could not be directly correlated to the exact time of use, the 
amount, or the residual effects at the time of the accident, the results suggest use within hours of the 
accident. It is likely that impairment from the student pilot's use of cocaine and methamphetamine 
