Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Sulphur Spring, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN19LA129
Date & Time:
April 27, 2019, 09:45 Local 
Registration:
N233P
Aircraft:
Piper PA 23
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel contamination
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot of a twin-engine airplane was in cruise flight when the left engine lost partial power. He turned 
on the boost pumps, checked the fuel quantity and engine gauges, verified fuel tank selection, and added 
throttle.  However, the left engine continued to lose power. The pilot reported that, without warning, the 
right engine lost total power and would not restart. The right propeller went to the feathered position.  
The pilot initiated a forced landing to a field. During the descent, the left engine lost total power but the 
propeller continued to rotate, and the left engine was unresponsive to throttle input. During the forced 
landing, the airplane sustained substantial damage to the left and right wings and the fuselage.
Examination of the right engine found the magneto timing at 12.5ยบ (data plate specifies 25ยบ). Otherwise, 
no preimpact abnormalities were noted during the right engine examination that would have precluded 
normal operations. The investigation was not able to determine why the right propeller was stopped in 
the feathered position.
Examination of the left engine found the magneto timing at 23ยบ. The bolts that secured the upper and 
lower halves of the carburetor were found loose. When the carburetor was opened, the inside of the bowl 
was dry, and the gasket appeared worn, consistent with rubbing between the two carburetor halves. The 
top set of spark plugs displayed heavy carbon coating consistent with the left engine running at a rich 
fuel setting.  During a test run, the left engine would not produce rated power and ran rich. When the 
mixture was leaned, the left engine ran smooth and ran normally. The carburetor was bench tested and 
operated as expected. The carburetor was disassembled, and evidence of water staining was present. 
A fuel sample collected from the left side fuel tank appeared divided with the top part blue, consistent 
with 100 LL avgas, and the lower portion of the liquid was clear with brown sediment visible at the 
intersection of the two liquids. The fuel strainer bowl revealed rust colored liquid and sediment in the 
bowl. The fuel strainer screen contained numerous small flakes of an unidentified contaminant. A 
sample of fuel drained from the left-wing tank tested positive for water when tested with water-finding 
paste. The loss of power on the left engine is likely due to water contamination.  
