Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Elberton, Georgia
Accident Number:
ERA19LA158
Date & Time:
April 25, 2019, 13:58 Local 
Registration:
N20FB
Aircraft:
Acro SUPER ACRO SPORT I
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Fuel exhaustion
Injuries:
1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot had just purchased the airplane and the accident flight was his first in it. Before the 
flight, the previous owner explained to the pilot that the main fuel tank was full of fuel and that 
the auxiliary tank contained no fuel. The pilot acknowledged the fuel state of the airplane and 
told the seller he "would not need" auxiliary fuel. Following an aborted takeoff attempt, the 
pilot departed for his home airport. The pilot advised first responders that during the flight, his 
“fuel quit working so he tried to prime it for his backup fuel to work.” When that did not 
remedy the problem, he prepared the airplane for a forced landing and subsequently impacted 
trees. The airplane was substantially damaged during the forced landing and the pilot was 
seriously injured.
A Federal Aviation Administration inspector who examined the airplane at the accident site 
found that only a “very small amount” of fuel remained in the main fuel tank after the accident. 
The estimated fuel endurance of the airplane based on the fuel reported to be onboard at the 
time the pilot departed, and the estimated fuel consumption reported by the previous owner, 
was about 2.1 hours. The time elapsed between when the airplane departed and the accident 
was about 2.3 hours. Given this information, it is likely that the pilot exhausted the airplane’s 
available fuel supply, resulting in a total loss of engine power and subsequent forced landing.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The pilot’s inadequate fuel planning, which resulted in a total loss of engine power due to fuel 
