Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Prairieville, Louisiana
Accident Number:
CEN19LA132
Date & Time:
April 3, 2019, 10:00 Local 
Registration:
N41AT
Aircraft:
Piper PA28R
Aircraft Damage:
Minor
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was conducting the airplane's first flight following an annual inspection. About 5 minutes after 
takeoff, the engine started to run rough and seized. The pilot performed a forced landing, during which 
he sustained serious injuries. Postaccident examination revealed that the engine oil drain valve was 
damaged when the nose landing gear contacted the valve during gear retraction after takeoff. This 
resulted in a loss of engine oil and subsequent engine failure due to oil starvation. Further examination 
revealed that the installed drain valve did not meet manufacturer specifications; the installed valve 
protruded about 1-1/8 inches from the engine, while the manufacturer-specified valve protruded about 
1/2 inch. A review of the airplane maintenance records revealed that the valve was replaced during the 
annual inspection because it had been leaking.
The airframe manufacturer had previously issued a service bulletin regarding installation of an incorrect 
engine oil drain valve. The Federal Aviation Administration subsequently issued an Airworthiness 
Directive requiring the replacement of any incorrectly installed valves and placement of a warning 
placard on the engine mount. The airplane maintenance manual also included a cautionary note 
regarding the engine oil drain valve and noted the requirement for a warning placard. A warning placard 
was not present on the accident airplane.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
Installation of an incorrect engine oil drain valve, which resulted in damage to the valve during 
