Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Accident Number:
GAA19CA234
Date & Time:
March 24, 2019, 15:30 Local 
Registration:
N358MN
Aircraft:
Cessna T310
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Landing gear not configured
Injuries:
3 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Other work use
Analysis 
The flight instructor in the retractable-landing gear, multiengine airplane reported that, while performing 
aerial survey training for a newly hired pilot, the airplane was slowed to the mission airspeed of 117 
knots, which meant reduced power and the use of more than 15° of flaps. He added that he then pulled 
the landing gear warning circuit breaker to silence the landing gear warning horn to ensure clear 
communication but that he did not pull the landing gear motor circuit breaker. The pilot receiving 
instruction reported that he did not know that the instructor had pulled the landing gear warning circuit 
breaker.
The instructor further reported that, while returning to the departure airport, the landing checklist was 
"accomplished" 15 to 20 miles from the airport. He saw that the pilot was "falling behind on power and 
descent management" and that the airplane was high and fast for the approach. The instructor advised 
the pilot to correct but then began to assist the pilot when it "was taking longer [than anticipated.]" The 
airplane decelerated into the white airspeed arc, and the instructor moved the landing gear selector 
switch into the down position and added full flaps. He added that, because the flaps were added shortly 
after the landing gear selector switch was put into the down position, he could not tell by the flight 
characteristics that the landing gear had not extended. Neither he nor the pilot noticed that there was no 
green down-and-locked position light indicator. The airplane landed with the landing gear retracted.
The airplane sustained substantial damage to the fuselage and both engines.
The instructor added that, while configuring the airplane on the runway, he observed that the landing 
gear warning horn and landing gear motor circuit breakers were tripped. The director of maintenance 
reported that, during a postaccident examination, the airplane was lifted onto jacks and an emergency 
gear extension and three electrical landing gear retractions were conducted, and no defects were found.
In a photograph provided by the flight instructor, the landing gear warning horn and landing gear motor 
circuit breakers are right next to each other. Despite the instructor's statement that he did not pull the 
