Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Easton, Maryland
Accident Number:
ERA19LA160
Date & Time:
March 13, 2019, 17:40 Local 
Registration:
N33305
Aircraft:
Piper PA28R
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (total)
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The flight instructor and pilot were on a flight to resume the pilot's instrument training. After 
performing maneuvers and several touch-and-go landings, the pilots elected to perform a 
practice instrument approach to the destination airport. While on the approach, they 
configured the airplane for landing. The flight instructor noted that the airplane was below the 
glideslope and asked the pilot to increase engine power; however, the engine did not respond 
to the throttle input. The flight instructor took the controls and attempted to restore engine 
power without success. The propeller continued to windmill, the pilot switched fuel tanks, and 
the engine did not restart. The flight instructor performed a forced landing in a nearby field, 
during which the fuselage was substantially damaged. During recovery from the field, fuel was 
drained from both fuel tanks, and no water or debris was noted in the fuel. An examination of 
the engine revealed crankshaft and valvetrain continuity throughout the engine. The propeller 
was rotated through 360&deg; of motion, and compression and suction were noted on all 
cylinders. In addition, fuel was plumbed into the engine, and the engine was started and ran 
smoothly without hesitation. The engine power was decreased to idle power, and then the 
engine was shut down. There were no mechanical malfunctions or failures noted with the 
engine that would have precluded normal operation before the accident. The reason for the 
loss of engine power could not be determined.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
The loss of engine power for reasons that could not be determined because postaccident 
engine examination and testing revealed no preimpact mechanical malfunctions or failures 
that would have precluded normal operation.
