Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Sedona, Arizona
Accident Number:
WPR19LA128
Date & Time:
May 1, 2019, 09:35 Local 
Registration:
N6864Q
Aircraft:
Beech 35
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
About 1 week before the accident, the previous owner had flown the fuel-injected single-engine airplane 
about 70 miles for inspection before selling to the accident pilot. That flight was uneventful as was the 
pre-buy inspection. The sale was accomplished, and the airplane remained at the accident pilot’s airport, 
which was at an elevation of about 4,800 ft. The accident pilot arranged to begin an airplane checkout 
process with a certificated flight instructor (CFI), and their flight was to be the first flight since the pre-
buy inspection. The CFI and the pilot both reported that the preflight inspection, engine start, taxi out, 
and engine runup for the planned local flight were all normal. Based on the airport’s high elevation, they 
leaned the fuel mixture for takeoff.
The takeoff roll and liftoff were normal, but just after the airplane lifted off, both pilots sensed a 
significant loss of engine power, the stall warning sounded, and the airplane began to roll right-wing 
down. The airplane drifted to the right and impacted the unpaved surfaces adjacent to the right side of 
the runway. The airplane traversed some rough terrain, the landing gear collapsed, and the airplane slid 
to a stop. The left wing sustained substantial damage.
Initial postaccident examination of the airplane did not reveal any pre-impact mechanical deficiencies or 
failures that would have precluded normal operation. The engine started and operated normally during a 
test run while it remained on the airframe. However, fuel was observed leaking from the throttle and 
metering assembly (T/MA), so testing was terminated. Visual inspection of the T/MA and nearby 
components revealed grime around the shaft-case penetrations and blue staining on the airframe 
structure below the T/MA. Both were evidence of pre-existing fuel leaks. Although the leak origination 
date could not be determined, the appearances of both signatures were consistent with their existence 
while the airplane was in service rather than as a result of the accident impact. The investigation could 
not determine how long the leak had been occurring or if it was present at the time of the last annual 
inspection, about 8 months before the accident. The visual evidence of the existing leak was likely not 
significant enough to have been identified during the pre-buy inspection.
