Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Tyrone, Pennsylvania
Accident Number:
ERA19FA161
Date & Time:
May 1, 2019, 12:51 Local 
Registration:
N733KZ
Aircraft:
Cessna 172
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
VFR encounter with IMC
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
**This report was modified on June 23, 2021. Please see the public docket for this investigation 
to view the original report.**
The pilot was conducting a personal, cross-country flight with one passenger onboard. The 
pilot received a formal preflight weather briefing, which warned of instrument and marginal 
visual meteorological conditions as well as mountain obscuration conditions due to clouds near 
the departure airport and along the airplane’s expected route of flight. Although the pilot had 
filed an instrument flight rules flight plan for the flight, he advised air traffic control at the 
departure airport that he would be departing under visual flight rules (VFR). Flight track and 
weather data showed that, after departure, the airplane proceeded toward mountainous terrain 
that was likely obscured by clouds. A witness near the accident site reported seeing the airplane 
flying below the clouds (fog) before losing sight of it behind trees and then hearing the impact.
Postaccident examination of the airframe and engine revealed no evidence of any preaccident 
mechanical failures or malfunctions that would have precluded normal operation. Based on the 
damage signatures displayed by the wreckage and trees surrounding the accident site, it is 
likely that the airplane impacted trees and terrain in a relatively level, slightly right wing down 
flight attitude and that the engine was producing power at the time of the impact.
Although the pilot held an instrument rating, he did not meet the necessary currency 
requirements to undertake an instrument flight rules flight.  It is likely that, after departing, 
the pilot encountered deteriorating weather conditions that obscured the mountainous terrain, 
and resulted in the pilot’s controlled flight into terrain.
