Page 1 of 11
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Mineral Wells, Texas
Accident Number:
CEN19LA133
Date & Time:
May 2, 2019, 17:02 Local 
Registration:
N8160C
Aircraft:
Cirrus SR20
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Part(s) separation from AC
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was conducting a personal flight in the airport traffic pattern when he felt the airplane 
“shudder” shortly before the turn onto the base leg for the runway. The pilot and passenger then saw the 
right aileron “fluttering,” and the pilot immediately turned to intercept the final approach. The right 
aileron separated from the wing about 0.5 mile from the approach end of the runway. The pilot was able 
to maintain roll control of the airplane after the right aileron separated, and he completed an uneventful 
landing on the runway.
Examination of the airplane and the recovered right aileron revealed that the aileron’s inboard hinge bolt 
was not threaded into its nut plate. The safety wire that normally secured the inboard hinge bolt was 
found fractured. The safety wire had been excessively twisted when the right aileron was installed; the 
excessive twisting led to the torsional overstress fracture of the safety wire during the accident flight. 
Additionally, the nut plate had significantly reduced thread-locking abilities that allowed the unsecured 
inboard hinge bolt to loosen; the right aileron separated from the wing when the inboard hinge bolt 
disengaged from the nut plate. Although the inboard hinge bolt assembly included a slightly longer bolt 
than specified and an additional small washer, these component discrepancies did not contribute to the 
aileron separation. 
The airplane had accumulated about 733 flight hours during the more than 10 years since the right 
aileron was last removed and reinstalled during maintenance. The most recent maintenance performed 
on the airplane was an annual inspection completed about 15.2 flight hours before the accident. The 
mechanic who performed the last annual inspection observed safety wire installed on the aileron hinge 
bolts.
Probable Cause and Findings
