Page 1 of 32
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Jacksonville, Florida
Accident Number:
DCA19MA143
Date & Time:
May 3, 2019, 21:42 Local 
Registration:
N732MA
Aircraft:
Boeing 737
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Runway excursion
Injuries:
1 Minor, 142 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 121: Air carrier - Non-scheduled
Analysis 
According to both pilots, the takeoff, climb, and cruise portions of the flight were uneventful. 
The No. 1 (left) thrust reverser was not operational and deferred for the flight in accordance 
with the airplane’s minimum equipment list. The captain was the pilot flying for the accident 
flight, and the first officer was the pilot monitoring. The captain was also performing check 
airman duties for the first officer who was in the process of completing operating experience 
training.
During the approach to Jacksonville Naval Air Station (NIP), the flight crew had two runway 
change discussions with air traffic controllers due to reported weather conditions (moderate to 
heavy precipitation) near the field; the pilots ultimately executed the area navigation GPS 
approach to runway 10, which was ungrooved and had a displaced threshold 997 ft from the 
threshold, leaving an available landing distance of 8,006 ft.
As the airplane descended through 1,390 ft mean sea level (msl), the pilots configured it for 
landing with the flaps set at 30º and the landing gear extended; however, the speedbrake 
handle was not placed in the armed position as specified in the Landing checklist. At an 
altitude of about 1,100 ft msl and 2.8 nm from the runway, the airplane was slightly above the 
glidepath, and its airspeed was on target. Over the next minute, the indicated airspeed 
increased to 170 knots (17 knots above the target approach speed), and groundspeed reached 
180 knots, including an estimated 7-knot tailwind.
At an altitude of about 680 ft msl and 1.6 nm from the threshold, the airplane deviated further 
above the 3° glidepath such that the precision approach path indicator (PAPI) lights would 
have appeared to the flight crew as four white lights and would retain that appearance 
throughout the rest of the approach. Eight seconds before touchdown, multiple enhanced 
ground proximity warning system alerts announced “sink rate” as the airplane’s descent rate 
peaked at 1,580 fpm. The airplane crossed the displaced threshold 120 ft above the runway (the 
