Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Anderson, Indiana
Accident Number:
CEN19FA135
Date & Time:
May 5, 2019, 08:30 Local 
Registration:
N999CR
Aircraft:
Piper PA34
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot planned to ferry the twin-engine airplane to another airport for the annual maintenance 
inspection. Several witnesses saw the airplane's departure. Two of the witness reported that the airplane 
engines didn't sound "normal".  Several witnesses reported that the airplane appeared to pitch up, before 
stalling. 
A video from the airport's security camera revealed that the airplane appeared to climb steeply; the 
airplane's wings rocked back-and-forth, and the airplane disappeared out of view. When the airplane 
reappeared in the camera's view, the airplane was in a descent with the left wing low. The airplane 
collided with terrain and the airplane cabin area was largely destroyed by the impact. 
Examination of the airplane found the stabilator trim actuator screw was near its maximum nose up 
setting.  The left engine was removed from the airframe and tested in the engine manufacturers test cell. 
The engine test run reveled the engine did not produce full rated horsepower and on occasions produced 
black exhaust which was indicative of a rich fuel air mixture. The fuel servo was replaced with a new 
unit and the engine was able to produce rated horsepower. Further examination of the original fuel servo 
showed that the control linkage (rod and link assembly), was installed incorrectly.  
The accident is consistent with loss of power on the left engine due to an incorrectly installed fuel servo 
and an excessive nose up trim setting, which resulted in steep climb angle, a loss of airspeed, and an 
aerodynamic stall.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
