Page 1 of 10
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Santa Rosa, New Mexico
Accident Number:
ANC19FA018
Date & Time:
May 5, 2019, 16:00 Local 
Registration:
N102SN
Aircraft:
Beech A60
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
2 Fatal
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Personal
Analysis 
The pilot was performing a personal cross-country flight. While en route to the intended destination, the 
pilot contacted air traffic control to report that the airplane was having a fuel pump issue and requested 
to divert to the nearest airport. The pilot stated that the request was only precautionary and did not 
declare an emergency during the flight; he provided no further information about the fuel pump. As the 
airplane approached the diversion airport, witnesses observed the airplane flying low and rolling to the 
left just before impacting terrain, after which a postcrash fire ensued.
An examination of the airframe revealed no preimpact mechanical malfunctions or failures that would 
have precluded normal operation. A postaccident examination and review of recorded data indicated that 
the left engine was secured and in the feather position, and that the right engine was operating at a high 
RPM setting. 
The left engine-driven fuel pump was found fractured. Further examination of the fuel pump revealed 
fatigue failure of the pressure relief valve. The fatigue failure initiated in upward bending on one side of 
the valve disk and progressed around both sides of the valve stem. As the cracks grew, the stem 
separated from the disk on one side and began to tilt in relation to the disk and the valve guide due to the 
non-symmetric support, which caused the lower end of the stem to rub against the valve guide, creating 
wear marks. The increasing stem tilt would have impinged against the valve guide, and the valve might 
have begun to stick in the closed position. If the valve were stuck in the closed position, it would not be 
able to open, and the outlet fuel pressure could rise above the set point pressure. Because the pump was 
driven by the engine, there would not be a way for the pilot to shut it off, disconnect it, or bypass it. 
Instead, the fuel pressure would continue to rise until the valve were to unstick. Thus, the pilot was 
likely experiencing variable fuel pressure as the valve became stuck and unstuck. 
Examination of the spring seat and the diaphragm plate, which were in contact with each other in the 
fuel pump assembly, revealed wear marks on the surface of each component, with one mark on the 
diaphragm plate and two wear marks on the spring seat. The two wear marks on the spring seat were 
