Page 1 of 5
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Atlanta, Georgia
Accident Number:
DCA19CA146
Date & Time:
April 4, 2019, 20:19 Local 
Registration:
N977DL
Aircraft:
McDonnell Douglas MD88
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Ground collision
Injuries:
1 Minor
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 121: Air carrier - Scheduled
Analysis 
On April 4, 2019, at 2019 eastern daylight time, Delta Air Lines flight 1276, a Boeing/McDonnell 
Douglas MD88, N977DL, was substantially damaged after being struck by a baggage tug during taxi at 
the Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport, Atlanta, Georgia (ATL).  The were no injuries aboard the 
airplane, the tug driver received minor injuries. Night visual conditions with light rain prevailed. The 
airplane was operating under 14 CFR Part 121 as a regularly scheduled domestic passenger flight 
from Syracuse Hancock International Airport (SYR), Syracuse, New York to ATL.
According to the operator, the flight crew reported that the flight from SYR. The captain reported that 
after landing, ATC cleared the flight to enter the Ramp 2 east taxi lane and taxi to gate B14.  The captain 
indicated that as they began to turn right into the ramp, Ramp Control instructed flight 1276 to give way 
to opposite direction traffic. As the captain was looking forward to identify the traffic, the first officer 
called out, "Stop, Stop, Stop!" The captain immediately applied full brakes. The flight crew then heard 
and felt an impact coming from the right side of the forward fuselage.
The pilots notified ramp control and held position. Ground support personnel arrived quickly to assist. 
The ground personnel told the pilot via inter-phone that a tug and baggage cart had impacted the 
fuselage and was against the nose gear. Ground personnel reported to the crew that the tug driver was 
OK but that he did not know where he was or how he got there. 
The crew and passengers deplaned via the ventral stairs with no further incident.
The tug driver did not cooperate with the investigation.
Probable Cause and Findings
