Page 1 of 9
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Foley, Alabama
Accident Number:
ERA19FA164
Date & Time:
May 6, 2019, 12:47 Local 
Registration:
N5542U
Aircraft:
Piper PA28
Aircraft Damage:
Destroyed
Defining Event:
Aerodynamic stall/spin
Injuries:
1 Fatal, 1 Serious
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The flight instructor and student pilot were conducting simulated engine-out emergency procedures in 
the airport traffic pattern. About 300-400 ft above ground level after takeoff, witnesses reported that the 
flight instructor announced on the radio that the engine had quit. Witnesses reported that the airplane 
then entered a nose-high, steep left turn before pitching down and impacting the ground.
Postaccident examination of the airframe and flight controls revealed no mechanical anomalies that 
would have precluded normal operation. Examination of the engine revealed that the No. 4 cylinder 
exhaust valve was stuck in the valve guide due to excessive combustion deposits. It is likely that the 
stuck exhaust valve resulted in a partial loss of engine power.
A flight instructor who flew the accident airplane the day before the accident flight reported 
experiencing engine roughness when performing simulated engine-out procedures. Following that flight, 
a mechanic cleaned the sparkplugs, performed an engine run-up, and returned the airplane to service; 
however, maintenance records did not show that the engine valves were inspected for sticking at that 
time. Manufacturer service instructions suggested inspecting for valve sticking at regular intervals or 
sooner if sticking was suspected. If a valve inspection had been completed in accordance with engine 
manufacturer guidance the day before the accident following the report of engine roughness, it is likely 
that the heavy carbon deposits on the exhaust valve would have been detected.
Given that the flight instructor reportedly had students trim the airplane nose-up when landing, it is 
possible that the airplane was trimmed nose-high at the time of takeoff and the subsequent loss of engine 
power. Such a trim setting would have led to excessive pitch up, resulting in a rapid loss of airspeed, an 
exceedance of the airplane's critical angle of attack, and an aerodynamic stall at low altitude.
Probable Cause and Findings
The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:
