Page 1 of 8
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Sutter, California
Accident Number:
WPR19LA137
Date & Time:
May 5, 2019, 10:06 Local 
Registration:
N3630D
Aircraft:
Grumman G164
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Powerplant sys/comp malf/fail
Injuries:
1 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 137: Agricultural
Analysis 
Shortly after the pilot transitioned from climb to cruise flight, the engine power suddenly decreased to 
idle power without any control inputs from the pilot. He attempted to cycle the throttle to restore power 
but was unsuccessful. The pilot jettisoned the fertilizer payload he was carrying and initiated a forced 
landing to a nearby dirt road. The airplane impacted the ground short of the road and collided with trees 
before it came to rest, substantially damaging the wings and fuselage. The engine continued to run at 
idle power after the airplane came to rest. 
Examination of the airplane found that an interconnect linkage between the fuel control unit (FCU) and 
propeller governor had separated from its mount and the bolt, nut, spacer and cotter pin normally used to 
secure the FCU interconnect rod to the FCU actuating lever were missing. Additionally, the cam 
designed to adjust the FCU and propeller governor conditions simultaneously through cockpit control 
inputs had fractured. This fracture was the result of overstress and likely occurred after the interconnect 
linkage separated.
Based on the design of the FCU, it is likely that the loss of power occurred when the FCU interconnect 
linkage disconnected in flight, which caused the FCU to revert to its idle power condition. The engine 
examination revealed no further anomalies, and the pilot reported that the engine continued to function 
on idle power after the airplane came to rest. As maintenance records indicated that the FCU 
intermediate linkage had recently been removed, it is likely that maintenance personnel disconnected the 
interconnect rod for easier access to the FCU. However, as the securing hardware was not recovered, the 
actual circumstances that led to the separation of the bolt, nut, and washer from the FCU could not be 
determined. 
Probable Cause and Findings
