Page 1 of 6
Aviation Investigation Final Report
Location:
Winter Haven, Florida
Accident Number:
WPR19LA136
Date & Time:
May 4, 2019, 11:00 Local 
Registration:
N2134T
Aircraft:
Piper PA28R
Aircraft Damage:
Substantial
Defining Event:
Loss of engine power (partial)
Injuries:
2 None
Flight Conducted Under:
Part 91: General aviation - Instructional
Analysis 
The instructional flight was in-bound to the initial approach fix to practice a simulated instrument 
approach when the engine began to fluctuate and sputter. The flight instructor switched fuel tanks and 
turned on the fuel pump to no avail. The airplane was unable to reach a nearby airport, so the flight 
instructor accomplished a forced landing in an open field. During the forced landing, the airplane’s left 
wing sustained substantial damage when the landing gear struck a rut in the field.
Postaccident examination of the airplane revealed no pre-impact anomalies. During the first of several 
engine runs, the engine started uneventfully but subsequently surged and stopped. Pressure was applied 
to the fuel system and fuel was observed leaking out of the top two vent holes of the fuel selector. The 
fuel selector was subsequently bypassed, and the engine started and ran with no additional anomalies 
noted.
The fuel selector was removed and examined.  During a pressure test, when the fuel valve was 
positioned to the left or right tank position, a fuel leak occurred again from the vent holes. Subsequently, 
the fuel valve was disassembled to examine the housing, shaft, and four O-rings. No anomalies were 
observed to the housing or shaft. Microscopic examination revealed that two O-rings appeared to have 
frictional interactions with the inner surface of the housing bore, and the other two O-rings exhibited 
wear on the surfaces in contact with the inner surface of the housing bore. No additional anomalies were 
noted.
The circumstances of the accident are consistent with air entering the fuel system where the fuel leaks 
occurred in the fuel selector valve.  Air in the fuel lines would have interrupted the flow of fuel to the 
engine, resulting in a loss of engine power.
